PORT OF SPAIN, Trinidad –The state-owned Caribbean Airlines Tuesday cancelled or re-scheduled several of its flights as the region prepares for the passage of a tropical cyclone that is moving towards the southern Windward Islands and likely to bring heavy rains and gusty winds. The Trinidad and Tobago government has also closed schools on the island as a precaution. CAL said that all its domestic flights between Trinidad and Tobago had been cancelled and it had also cancelled its schedule services from Kingston in Jamaica to St. Maarten, Barbados and Port of Spain as well as the flight from Trinidad to Suriname and return. In addition, the airline said that it is scheduling its services from Trinidad to Guyana, Trinidad to Curacao and Curacao to Port of Spain. “Caribbean Airlines advises that there will be disruptions to its domestic and international flights due to the Tropical Storm Warning issued for Trinidad and Tobago and the severe weather conditions expected between June 28th through July 1,” the airline said urging customers to check their flight  status by route or flight number. Meanwhile the Miami-based National Hurricane Center (NHC) said in its latest weather bulletin that the storm is located about 420 miles east of Trinidad with maximum sustained winds of 40 miles per hour. It said that a Tropical Storm Warning is in effect for Trinidad and Tobago, Grenada and its dependencies, while a Tropical Storm Watch is in effect for the coast of Venezuela from Pedernales to Cumana, including Islas de Margarita, Coche, and Cubagua and Bonaire The NHC said that a westward or west- northwestward motion is expected through Thursday and on that on the forecast track, the system will pass near or over portions of the southern Windward Islands by tonight, and move over the southern Caribbean Sea or near the northern coast of Venezuela on Wednesday and Thursday. “Maximum sustained winds remain near 40 mph with higher gusts. Slight strengthening is forecast during the next few days if the disturbance remains over water. “Conditions appear conducive for development if the disturbance remains over water, and it will likely become a tropical storm near the southern Windward Islands or while moving westward across the southern Caribbean Sea,” the MHC said. It said that the potential tropical cyclone is expected to produce heavy rain across the southern Windward Islands and the northeastern coast of Venezuela starting tonight into Wednesday. It said that storm total rainfall amounts are expected from the Islands from Guadeloupe to St. Lucia at one to three inches, St. Vincent, the Grenadines, and Barbados: three to five inches Grenada, Trinidad and Tobago, and northeastern Venezuela four to six inches.