MIAMI-DADE - On June 13, The Children’s Trust Board of Directors approved funding recommendations for its Family and Neighborhood Support Partnerships (FNSP) solicitations, which will provide $13.8 million to Miami-Dade communities with children and families in need of support during these difficult times, including an affordable housing crisis, a mental health crisis, soaring costs for child care and rising inflation on goods and services. Photo courtesy of Felix BecerraFNSP funds will serve children and youth residing in neighborhoods affected by poverty, crime, unemployment, community violence and trauma. It will also serve countywide populations with specific needs and challenging life experiences, such as children exposed to domestic violence; children of incarcerated parents; children involved in or transitioning out of the child welfare system; youth experiencing immigration challenges and/or in need of legal advocacy; families with youth living with disabilities; and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth. Partnerships offer comprehensive and individualized supports for children, youth and their families who are experiencing challenges that limit them from realizing their full health, social, educational, and economic potential. These programs are staffed by teams that include management, clinical and direct service staff along with paraprofessionals, care coordinators, and success coaches. These teams will help families navigate systems and support connecting them to the social services, therapies, beneficial programs as well as essential stabilization items they may need, like assistance with transportation and short-term housing help. “As the world has transformed over the last few years, we have all learned to adapt. And now is the time to continue to address the evolving needs of our community head-on,” said Children’s Trust President & CEO James R. Haj. “It is the Trust’s theory of change that if we promote positive childhood experiences, build family and youth strengths and relationships and provide support for essential needs, children, youth and families will achieve health, happiness, and success of all kinds.” ”I definitely appreciate the fact that I gained help because not only was it good for me, it was good for my son,” said Joanyah Saintu, who is enrolled in services with the Opa-locka Community Development Corporation. “Mental health is important, and they helped me get access to things like yoga and breathing techniques.”