St. George’s, Grenada W.I.  – The tri-state island of Grenada is proud to announce that the island won 10 awards in six categories for USA Today’s 10Best Readers’ Choice Awards 2022, including Best Caribbean Beach, Attraction, Beach Bar, Resort, Rum Distillery, and Restaurant. Paradise Beach in Carriacou, Grenada’s sister island, copped the award as the #1 Beach in the Caribbean. 10 Best Readers' Choice Awards highlight the best of the best in contests covering categories such as destinations, food and drink, hotels, and attractions . Nominees in all categories are chosen editorially by a panel of experts and readers were encouraged to vote. Readers were able to vote in each category once per day. The competition started on January 17 and finished on Feb 14. Winners in the respective categories are awarded a badge of recognition as the 10 Best Readers’ Choice. USA TODAY is a multi-platform news and information media company with a combined reach of seven million readers daily and a leader in mobile applications with more than 21 million downloads on mobile devices. “This is truly an outstanding award for our tourism product and we would like to sincerely thank the USA Today editorial team for our nominations and to all those who voted,” said Petra Roach, CEO of Grenada Tourism Authority. “Carriacou’s Paradise Beach is a hidden gem of the Caribbean known for its boatbuilding and eco-tourism and is a prime example of the conservation practices Grenada embodies. As the results were nominated by readers, these awards are a true testament to the island’s superior tourism offerings and visitors from around the world can expect only the best experience and service when visiting our island.” Below is a list of awards won for Grenada: Best Caribbean Beach (2022) #1 - Paradise Beach – Carriacou A pristine beach with a narrow stretch of soft white sand and transparent turquoise waters located in the village of L’Esterre. Visitors can enjoy local cuisine and beverages at the resident restaurant and bar shaded by tall coconut and almond trees and enjoy the souvenir shop filled with hand-made craft and memorabilia. #3 - Grand Anse Beach – Grenada A world-famous beach on a silky stretch of sheltered white sand where visitors and locals enjoy the view of the capital with water sport specialists, hotels, restaurants and a vendors market offering local products. Best Caribbean Attraction #3 - Belmont Estate – Grenada Belmont Estate is an authentic 17th century plantation that offers guests an opportunity to participate in and observe the workings of a fully functional historic plantation. Guests can enjoy tours through the organic farm, gardens, heritage museum, and cocoa processing facilities. They also have a restaurant on-site featuring traditional Grenadian cuisine, a goat dairy farm, petting farm, conference room, gift shop, café, produce shop, credit union and craft market. Best Caribbean Beach Bar #4 - Esther's Bar - Grand Anse Beach, Grenada A laid-back beach bar on Grand Anse Beach known for its mojitos and margaritas. # 7 - Umbrellas Beach Bar - Grand Anse Beach, Grenada A fun, easy going restaurant and beach bar serving great food, cocktails, and good vibes from Grenada’s beautiful Grand Anse Beach. Best Caribbean Resort #8 - True Blue Bay Boutique Resort - True Blue, St. George’s True Blue Bay Boutique Resort is a charming eco-friendly boutique resort on the world-famous white-sand Grand Anse beach offering spacious and Caribbean-chic accommodations. Best Caribbean Rum Distillery #5 - Clarke's Court Rum – Woodlands Valley, St George’s Clarke's Court Rum has been in operation since 1937 and is the largest and best-known distillery in Grenada. Best Restaurant in the Caribbean #6 - Punj-abi - Point Salines, Grenada A restaurant fusing traditional Indian and Grenadian food in the stunning surroundings of Grenada. #7 - Dexter's Restaurant - Golf Course, St. George’s An off-the-beaten-path restaurant serving delicious local cuisine and a 5-course dining experience in a rustic, open-air setting. #8 - La Sagesse Restaurant - La Sagesse, St. David, Grenada Tucked into Grenada’s most sought after bay, La Sagesse offers warm sand, calm waters, fresh and local menus, and first class accommodations. More recently, Grenada eased its travel restrictions once again to accept rapid antigen testing, along with PCR testing, for fully vaccinated travelers taken within 1 day of arrival in Grenada.