PALM BEACH, Aruba – Hyatt Regency Aruba Resort Spa and Casino, located on the world-renowned Palm Beach, is pleased to announce that its new Regency Club is now open to hotel guests. The Regency Club is accessible to World of Hyatt members with Globalist status and guests who reserve Regency Club Access. Designed with innovation and ease of travel in mind, the lounge offers a fresh and natural space that celebrates the people of Aruba, open daily from 7:30 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. The Regency Club offers guests a seamless experience enveloped in the charm and hospitality of One Happy Island. At the start of their stay, World of Hyatt elite members and Regency Club guests have access to private check-ins at the Club, allowing expedited access to newly renovated guestrooms and the rest of the 12-acre property. These visitors also have a dedicated concierge team to book activities and excursions, a relaxing library space with computer workstations and a lending library, and access to the resort’s wellness and wellbeing ambassador who can help build a holistic itinerary focused on wellness. The Regency Club is connected to the resort’s courtyard, where guests are greeted with natural, coastal-style décor, including furniture curated to emphasize the resort’s Caribbean beachside location. Island influences can be found throughout the lounge, including photos of native plants, books highlighting Aruba’s flora and fauna, and cookware inspired by the vibrant colors of the murals of San Nicolas. Providing the preferred privacy expected of a Regency Club, the fresh, natural space is complete with floor-to-ceiling windows facing the Caribbean Sea and designed with beachy hues and natural textures. “We are thrilled that guests now have the ability to experience elevated offerings at our wonderful resort at the new Regency Club,” said Gabriel Castrillon, general manager of Hyatt Regency Aruba Resort Spa and Casino. “Since 2020 we have been slowly unveiling various guest amenities and experiences and have now debuted our new Regency Club. After extensive renovations on property, we have more ways than ever for guests to have a truly memorable visit.” The resort recently finished a multi-million dollar transformation, enhancing each of the property’s 359 guestrooms with modern, spacious designs, roomy bathrooms, and handcrafted furnishings inspired by the tropical environment. The renovation also included the new adults-only pool, Trankilo, and a transformation of ZoiA Spa. The pool, complete with private cabanas and butler service, gives guests ages 18 and older a quieter retreat to enjoy their Aruban getaway. ZoiA Spa offers treatments using local ingredients and emphasizing energy, purity, serenity and devotion. Hyatt Regency Aruba Resort Spa and Casino, a AAA Four Diamond resort, features an array of amenities like a spectacular pool complex complete with a two-story water slide and a lively swim-up Balashi Pool Bar where guests can enjoy refreshing cocktails and drinks. The resort also features a comprehensive list of on-site activities including aerial yoga, meditation, mixology, cooking, and an Artisan Community Market. Guests can also enjoy an on-site fitness center, tennis courts, Hyatt Regency Casino, and nine food and beverage options including the resort’s signature restaurant, Ruinas del Mar. To round out a relaxing stay on the charming island, the resort’s partners at Red Sail Sports offer unique adventures where guests seeking thrills can experience undersea diving lessons, a sun-filled afternoon of kite surfing, or a peaceful ride on horseback.