Miami, Florida– Miami Dade College (MDC) Executive Vice President and Provost Dr. Malou C. Harrison has been selected as one of 46 emerging college and university leaders nationwide for the ACE Fellows Program, a customized learning experience that enables participants to immerse themselves in the study and practice of leadership. Participants experience the culture, policies, and decision-making processes of another institution and bring those practices back to their home campus. Dr. Harrison is a respected leader with more than 35 years of transformative leadership experiences championing the cause of underserved students in public higher education. She has served in various capacities at the College, including president of multiple campuses and Dean of Students. Throughout her tenure, she has led the establishment of many high impact partnership initiatives at the College that have furthered equity, academic excellence and student success, as well as holistic services such as Single Stop, Year Up, and Educate Tomorrow. Harrison has been at the helm of resource development that has garnered substantial funding from a combination of private sources as well as public funders such as the National Science Foundation, U.S. Department of Education to support Trio, Title V and Title III programs as well as numerous educational and undergraduate science research programs aimed at advancing minority student attainment in STEM disciplines. The ACE Fellowship program combines retreats, interactive and virtual learning opportunities, visits to campuses and other higher education-related organizations, and placement at another higher education institution to condense years of on-the-job experience and skills development into a single year. During the placement, Fellows observe and work with senior officers at their host institution, attend decision-making meetings, and focus on issues of interest that will benefit their host and nominating institutions. At the conclusion of the Fellowship year, Fellows return to their home institution with new knowledge and skills that contribute to capacity-building efforts, along with a network of peers across the country and abroad.