KINGSTON, Jamaica – The Jamaica government says the full resumption of face-to-face learning will start on Monday, March 7 as the country continues to re-open as a result of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.. Principal of Lewisville High School in St. Elizabeth, Duken Williams, oversees the sitting of a City & Guilds mock examination at the institution on Tuesday (November 9). (Photo by OKOYE HENRY/JIS)The Ministry of Education and Youth, said to aid in the preparation of institutions, additional funds are being disbursed for sanitization and procurement of furniture where needed. In addition, documentation is being prepared to ensure the timely payment of the fourth tranche of the funding grants, which is due in April. he ministry said that school administrators have been reminded that all institutions must be approved by the Ministry of Health and Wellness for in-person classes. It said the “three to six feet” social/physical distancing condition has been relaxed, which means that classroom seating can be arranged to reflect the usual spacing of desks and chairs prior to the coronavirus (COVID-19) restrictions. In classrooms where the three to six feet rule has been eased, there should be increased vigilance and monitoring of the students for mask-wearing, temperature checks and for any signs of illness. School administrators are required to continue utilizing the isolation centers where there are signs of illness and continue to work closely with health professionals, including parish health inspectors. The authorities said that the schools should also prepare a space and use the protocols to isolate and treat students and staff who may become ill or show symptoms of the COVID-19 virus. In addition, wash stations must be installed in strategic locations as guided by the Ministry of Health, and staff, parents and students should be re-sensitized about the safety protocols. “School administrators should ensure compliance with the wearing of masks and frequent washing of hands, facilitate regular and structured mask breaks, and maximize the use of open spaces in a structured manner,” according to a statement issued by the Education Ministry. It said that all persons who enter the school grounds each day should have their temperature taken. “Where the temperature of the person is 37°C and below, entry may be granted. Where the temperature is 37.5°C to 37.9°C, the person must be isolated for five to 10 minutes and the temperature rechecked. Where the temperature is 38°C or above, the individual should be taken to the isolation area, after which the ill-person procedure must be implemented.”