GEORGETOWN, Guyana – Minister of Education Priya Manickchand said Wednesday that authorities are working towards having all schools at every level fully reopened after the Easter break. Minister of Education Priya ManickchandShe said a full return to the classroom will mean no rotations and no online engagement being facilitated at the nursery, primary or secondary levels. However, Manickchand said, the beneficial components of distance delivery will be integrated as far as it can be in face-to-face education. The minister explained that schools cannot be expanded at the rate necessary to ensure there is one child seated on a bench or six feet apart under usual COVID-19 protocols. “If we were to do it, children will be rotating for the next three to four years and that will be the loss of an entire generation for this country. That’s not going to be something a growing Guyana can tolerate,” she said, stressing that people therefore had to act responsibly. Since being closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, schools have gradually been reopening. However, the closures and the inability of many students to access online learning has resulted in some suffering “learning loss” and the full reopening will ensure all students have access to education, Manickchand said. Pupils who have been absent are being sought by the Ministry to have them returned to the classroom, through ‘Operation Recovery’, a program specifically designed to address absenteeism. Minister Manickchand said that the program was launched initially to locate those pupils who were absent for the first National Grade Six Assessment (NGSA) mock examination that was written last month. She said that she and officers in the ministry visited the homes of the pupils in every education district to find out the reason for their absence and to offer assistance where possible. The Education Minister said that as of last weekend, 538 students of out 1300 who did not show up for the examination had been located. She said that in order to ensure some of the pupils return to school, the Ministry is providing uniforms, school supplies and food items through partnerships with civil society organizations and individuals. Manickchand said the Ministry will continue to work with all interested partners to ensure that as many children as possible are in the classroom receiving the education they rightfully deserve.