LONDON, UK – Four members of Jamaica’s Reggae Boyz – Ravel Morrison, Kemar Roofe, Andre Gray and Jamal Lowe – led a Caribbean goal feast in Britain on Saturday. Jamaica international Ravel Morrison celebrates one of his two goals on Saturday.Midfielder Morrison, 29, bagged a brace – in the 22nd and 47th minutes – and also hit the woodwork to inspire Derby County to a vital 2-0 victory at Pride Park over fellow Championship strugglers Barnsley, which revived their survival hopes after three matches without a win. Morrison finished off a beautifully worked Rams move for the opener and claimed his second, firing in the rebound after captain Tom Lawrence rattled the crossbar. The brace were Morrison’s first league goals in England for nearly eight years, the former Manchester United midfielder’s drought having stretched back to April 2014. Gray, 30, who is on loan from Premier League Watford, smashed home his first goal at Loftus Road  this season to give Championship promotion hopefuls Queens Park Rangers a deserved  half-time lead, but visitors Cardiff City hit back to claim a 2-1 victory. The 29-year-old Roofe, meanwhile, came off the bench to bundle in a late winner for Rangers – his 12th of the season – in a 1-0 victory over Aberdeen at a packed Ibrox, which moved them level on points at the top of the Scottish Premiership with Celtic ahead of their game at Livingston on Sunday. Lowe, 27, gave Championship promotion chasers Bournemouth the lead on 50 minutes, slotting in after beating goalkeeper Daniel Iversen to the ball, but Preston North End came from behind to win 2-1 at Deepdale. Twenty-year-old Cameron Archer, whose mother is Jamaican, drilled in the equalizer on 54 minutes before Emil Riis Jakobsen grabbed an 89th-minute winner, with Bournemouth defender Adam Smith and boss Scott Parker sent off in the aftermath. At Carrow Road in the East of England, Reggae Boyz target Ivan Toney fired home two penalties in a brilliant hat-trick to steer Premier League Brentford to a 3-1 win at relegation-threatened Norwich City. At Boundary Park in the northwest, Barbados international Hallam Hope stabbed home from close range deep into first-half added time to give League Two strugglers Oldham Athletic the lead, but visitors Carlisle United roared back to take all three points with two goals after the break. It was 27-year-old Hope’s third goal in Oldham’s last four outings and fifth for the season. Elsewhere in the division, Montserratian defender Donervon Daniels’ first goal for the club earned Walsall a 1-1 draw at relegation-threatened Barrow. Daniels, 28, who had not scored since netting for Luton in January 2020, headed in Emmanuel Osadebe’s 65th-minute free-kick to cancel out a 35th-minute opener by John Rooney, brother of Derby County boss Wayne Rooney. Guyana international Reiss Greenidge, a 25-year-old defender, was also on target, scoring Barnet’s fourth goal on 67 minutes as they routed bottom club Dover Athletic 6-0 in the fifth-tier National League. Dominic Poleon, 28, who is of St Lucian heritage, netted in the 52nd minute as Ebbsfleet United won 2-0 at Bath City in the sixth-tier National League South.