HAMILTON, Bermuda – The Bermuda Red Cross says an appeal for help for Ukrainians, whose homeland has been invaded by Russia, has already passed its US$100,000 target. Executive director of the Bermuda Red Cross, Ann Spencer-ArscottAnn Spencer-Arscott, the charity’s executive director, said on Thursday that donations have so far totaled $130,000. “We are so grateful to the community for their generosity in supporting this disaster appeal,” she said. “We are aware of some large funds coming to us, so I am sure we will soon see $200,000 to $250,000 raised for this crisis.” There are about 50 Ukrainian nationals in Bermuda. The charity launched its appeal for donations in this British Overseas Territory last month as the conflict across Ukraine deepened after the invasion by Russia. Spencer-Arscott said: “We received $728 from Year 7 girls at Bermuda High School who did extra chores around the house to raise funds for Ukraine. “Residents from all walks of life are giving to the best of their ability which makes it even more heart-warming. “We are coming out of 24 months of sheer [COVID-19] craziness and we have opened up our hearts to supporting those in a far worse situation than we will ever be.” Expected cuts to Bermuda’s aviation industry revenue triggered by sanctions against Russia have been dramatically reduced by the government. Transport Minister Lawrence Scott told the House of Assembly last Friday that the Bermuda Civil Aviation Authority (BCAA) could take a hit of $25 million over the next 12 months resulting from UK measures put in place to punish Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine. But on Wednesday, Scott told a news conference that the figure could be $4 million. Pressed on the original $25 million figure, the minister said: “That is a projected number, it is a very fluid situation, so that is subject to change.” In his statement to legislators, Scott had warned the losses would wipe out the BCAA’s projected $17.8 million profit for the year. The BCAA’s budget for 2022-3, published this week in the Official Gazette, showed projected revenue of $32 million against expenses of $14.5 million. Many of the 748 aircraft on the Bermuda register are owned by leasing companies in Ireland and are leased to airlines in other countries. The bulk of the aircraft are believed to be in service in Russia and Belarus, the Royal Gazette newspaper reported.