BASSETERRE, St. Kitts – The St. Kitts-Nevis government has announced a revision of the measures put in place for travelers entering the twin island Federation because of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, saying that effective Friday, all international visitors would need to show proof of either a negative COVID-19 antigen test or a negative RT-PCR test. Photo of Anguilla. (via Alamy)It said that the tests must be taken within the 24 hours prior to arrival with the RT-PCR tests being done three days before. “The Federation is primed to continue welcoming visitors through the spring and summer months. We are fully open for visitors, and we are pleased to share revised entry protocols that make air travel to the destination easier for our international guests,” said Tourism, Transport and Ports Minister, Lindsay F.P. Grant. “We are confident that these amended entry requirements will aid in the rebound of our air arrivals, and the ongoing recovery of our tourism industry and related economies.” The chief executive officer of the St. Kitts Tourism Authority, Ellison “Tommy” Thompson, said that the spring and summer periods are ideal times to experience the destination and easing the entry processes means more seamless arrivals. “We look forward to travelers immersing themselves in our quintessential Caribbean experiences this season, whether they’re seeking a relaxing escape, the adrenaline of the outdoors, exceptional cuisine, live music, or a destination rich in history.” The authorities said that only fully vaccinated visitors would be allowed entry into the Federation with exceptions being only for children under 18 as well as citizens, residents and returning nationals. They said children ages 11 and under who are accompanying their fully vaccinated parents or guardians take the vaccination status of their parents. “Unvaccinated children ages 12-17 must test upon arrival and vacation in place with all family members while awaiting test results.” Meanwhile, the neighboring island of Anguilla, has also announced the lifting of travel authorization for fully vaccinated visitors from April 1. The Ministry of Health said the new guidelines are in accordance with its evolving COVID-19 Exit Strategy. “As of April 1st, 2022, all fully vaccinated travelers to Anguilla who are 18 years and older will no longer need to apply for permission to enter the island. They will still need to present evidence of full vaccination status with an approved vaccine and a negative COVID-19 test…taken within three days of travel or a rapid antigen test taken within two days of travel.” The authorities said that persons arriving into Anguilla without the appropriate documentation will be required to return to their country of origin; and if it is not possible to return, they shall complete arrival and exit tests, and quarantine for five days at their own expense. “Each visitor that is allowed to quarantine shall pay the Government of Anguilla a fee of US$200 in addition to any fines for unapproved entry. Unvaccinated visitors who have been granted a medical exemption will be required to apply on the entry portal, test on arrival, quarantine for five days and receive a negative test result to exit quarantine,” the statement said, at a cost of US$1000 per person.