Los Angeles, California - Yes, you read that correctly! Music giant Shinehead (@original_shinehead) turned sixty. It's safe to say that the legendary artist is a testament to the age old saying, "Age is nothing but a number." Looking, feeling and sounding amazing, "I am humbled by the well wishes and credit good living, diet and exercise for reaching this milestone," said Shinehead. This classic photo of Shinehead highlights his authentic fashion style.Heartfelt Birthday Greetings As April 10 rolled in, salutations to the "Jamaican in New York" singer poured in from around the world. Heartfelt messages were sent through out the day to the profound Aries entertainer from artists, musicians, Hip Hop DJs, media outlets, radio personalities, sounds, selectors, and most of all fans! Vivid memories helped make the landmark birthday extra special. While avid fans in Japan requested the star to return to the Far East on tour, long time friend and fellow artist Tonto Irie issued a virtual cross country toast from New York and the Welcome to Jamrock Reggae Cruise posted a memorable live performance clip in honor of their legendary resident act. Many others penned their greetings. Trying to make it as a Reggae artist coming out of New York was no easy task. You had to fight the mentality of those who thought you had to live in Jamaica in order to be authentic. There is no room for mediocrity when you’re trying to convince a industry that the only difference between Jamaica and New York Artist is the weather. The Honorable multitalented Shinehead is one of those who helped to spear head the mission of giving an artist like myself confidence that it’s possible to make it out of the big Apple. I wanna send a massive happy Earth Strong to a true legend @original_shinehead. Red Fox HBD to our Bro, #Shinehead - the great, incomparably versatile style-master, pitch-perfect joy EVERYTIME, sound man, dj, musician, intl JA-music authority … best wishes! bless #RoughAndRugged #GoldenTouch #JamaicanInNewYork #Strive Sirius XM “The Joint Storied Career and Contributions Throughout a storied career of more than 40 years, Shinehead has reached millions of fans and inspired generations of artists. It's quite befitting that that the "Strive" artist's expansive catalogue continues to dominate music spaces, with timeless and magical songs resonating and leaving an indelible mark on international listening audiences. At any given minute on any given day, a Shinehead song is playing. Even super Hip Hop producer Salaam Remi recently saluted the incomparable artist on his radio program.Shinehead delivers an amazing dose of Reggae Soul in his recently released "Never Had a Dream Come True" music video. Shinehead's ultra-diverse style helped catapult him before worldwide audiences, garnering mass appeal. Singlehandedly, the living legend has made infinite contributions to Reggae, Dancehall, Hip Hop, R&B and sound system culture. The music star has broken barriers, opened doors and paved the way for Reggae to have a respected place on international, mainstream stages! Whether one is inspired by "Strive" or grooving to "Jamaican in New York" "Know How Fi Chat," "Collie Weed" "Billie Jean," "Try My Love," "Chain Gang" or "Rough & Rugged," Shinehead's music permeates the mind, body and soul of fans. New Music and No Signs of Slowing Down Shinehead shows no signs of slowing down. Heralded for adding new hits to his arsenal, including the explosive Reggae Soul gems "Never Had a Dream Come True" and "The Makings of You" on the UK-based Peckings imprint, Shinehead proves he's got the "Golden Touch." Notably, both songs are fan and DJ favorites, which showcase his pitch-perfect vocals over nostalgic riddims. Recently, the renowned singer dropped his first video in more than 20 years, "Never Had a Dream Come True" -- reaping praise from listeners far and wide! Watch it on Kingston12hifi.com. In addition to creating new music, planning notable re-releases of classic material and blazing on some red-hot collabos, Shinehead is busy cutting dub plates. In fact, the top notch act says that upon turning 60, "Today's price is not yesterday's price." Rightfully so, as the artist deserves it.