Miami, FL– Miami Dade College (MDC) and longtime collaborator and supporter Florida Power & Light Company (FPL) announced an $800,000 investment in scholarships for Black students to facilitate the completion of baccalaureate degrees in the technology field. The funds from FPL will be used to cover tuition, fees, books and transportation costs for eligible Black students facing a financial need over the next 4 years. This support will allow students to focus on their education, accelerating completion and entry into the tech workforce. Additionally, the Miami Dade College Foundation will create an endowed fund to allow for the sustainability of the program, providing scholarships in perpetuity. This development comes as Tech Equity Miami is officially launched to celebrate a $100 million investment in tech in Miami and with MDC as the educational partner. “It is extremely satisfying to have partners such as FPL who are raising the bar of good corporate citizenship, investing in our students and, in turn, in our community,” said MDC President Madeline Pumariega. “We must be intentional and strategic in our efforts to bridge the opportunity divide. I am especially grateful with this initiative because it is in line with and expands many things we are already doing with our groundbreaking Rising Black Scholars Program, our MOSAIC Initiative, Data Science 4 All and others.” According to research, low-income working college students are less likely than their higher-income peers to get good grades or obtain bachelor’s degrees. These working learners are disproportionately Black. These grant funds from FPL will potentially enable students who work full-time or part-time to work fewer hours or to stop working to concentrate on their studies without the burden of financial distractions. “At FPL, we believe in breaking down barriers to opportunity for underserved communities, and we are always looking for ways to help empower our next generation of leaders,” said Pamela Rauch, vice president of external affairs and economic development for FPL. “FPL has long supported Miami Dade College’s technology programs and students, and we are honored to be able to expand opportunities for eligible Black students to help them build an even stronger foundation for in demand technology jobs.” MDC’s acclaimed School of Engineering and Technology (EnTec) will lead the recruitment, selection and retention of the students in a pathway to MDC baccalaureate degree programs such as in Information Systems Technology, Cybersecurity, or Data Analytics. Eligible students will begin qualifying for the grants this summer term. MDC and FPL will host an event with students accepted into the program this coming August and ahead of the fall term to provide an update on progress and celebrate student achievement.