Jamaica's government has removed travel requirements necessitating COVID-19 tests for travelers entering the country. Effective this month, international travelers no longer need PCR or antigen tests prior to arrival, nor do they need to present proof of vaccination. Sundance Villa in Hanover parish, Jamaica. (Image courtesy of The Tryall Club)As the country moves to balance economic recovery with keeping its citizenry safe, the government has also made the decision to eliminate its mask mandate. Minister of Tourism Edmund Bartlett had this to say about the recent changes: "Eliminating mask mandates and the need for travelers to present a negative COVID test result are important strides toward our continued gradual relaxation of travel protocols as the spread of COVID-19 keeps declining." The Jamaica Tourism Board is still encouraging visitors to observe health and safety protocols and to continue to monitor their health and wash their hands. Aside from this, the recent travel changes mean vacationing in Jamaica is essentially restriction free. Jamaica a short plane ride from major cities like Miami and New York, and ticket prices are notoriously good entering the summer season. Montego Bay is only a 90-minute trip from Miami International Airport, and 3 hours from JFK International Airport in New York.Jamaica’s avifauna is one of the most distinctive in the world. Jamaica has more readily found endemics than any other Caribbean country and one of the highest totals in the world. (Image courtesy of The Tryall Club) The range of activities you can enjoy include diving and snorkeling on coral reefs, deep-sea fishing and glass bottom boat trips. Nature admirers may even want to plan a visit to the Blue Hole or Dunn’s River Falls, both natural and national treasures of Jamaica. If you're more of a thrill seeker, Jamaica also has something for you! Activities range from ATV safaris, Bamboo rafting, and Black River Safaris, where you can observe crocodiles and swampy mangroves. If you enjoy a more relaxing atmosphere, there are plenty of hotels on the island where you can find tranquility and luxury. If you choose to stay in or around Montego Bay during your visit, try The Tryall Club. Home to 92 privately owned villas, you’ll enjoy a butler, chef, housekeeper, laundress and gardener around the clock. Situated in the parish of Hanover, the hotel blends sporting facilities, hospitality and stylish living amidst a stunning natural environment so that you can truly unwind worry free.