UNITED NATIONS – United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres Wednesday named Barbados Prime Minister Mia Mottley and her Canadian counterpart, Justin Trudeau as new co-chairs of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Advocates group amidst the growing number of development crises facing the world. Prime Ministers Mia Mottley and Justin Trudeau (Photo via @CanadianPM on Twitter)“The Sustainable Development Goals are the world’s blueprint to build a healthier, greener and sustainable future by 2030.  With the clock ticking and multiple crises driving us further off track, we must do everything in our power to deliver the SDGs,” said Guterres, adding “I’m pleased that Prime Minister Mottley and Prime Minister Trudeau will help lead advocacy to do just that”. Mottley said it was necessary to “seize the moment to move forward, together, to ensure the full implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development by the end of the Decade of Action and Delivery on the Sustainable Development Goals”. Prime Minister Mottley has campaigned extensively for climate action and debt sustainability in middle-income countries and small states. In 2021, she was awarded the Champions of the Earth Award for her leadership. Prime Minister Trudeau has been a strong advocate for climate action and nature protection, the empowerment of women and girls around the world, and ensuring an inclusive and resilient recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. “To build a better future for people and the planet, we must all place the values of inclusion and sustainability at the heart of everything we do. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals aim to create a world that is fair, equal, and peaceful, with clean air and clean water for everyone. “As co-Chair of the SDG Advocates group, I look forward to rallying countries, governments, the private sector, and others, to come together to accelerate our progress and continue to raise our voices – and our ambition – on the path to 2030,” said Trudeau. The SDG Advocates are influential leaders who support the Secretary-General in raising global ambition and action to keep the promise of the SDGs. The previous co-Chairs, President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo of Ghana and former Norwegian Prime Minister Erna Solberg have led the group since 2016 and 2014, respectively. The Secretary-General has thanked them for putting the SDGs on the global political agenda. They will continue to stay engaged as co-chairs of the SDG Advocates Emeritus Group, a group of alumni Advocates who continue to support the achievement of the SDGs. The following is the list of SDG Advocates. Her Majesty Queen Mathilde of the Belgians His Royal Highness Muhammadu Sanusi II, 14th Emir of Kano Her Highness Sheikha Moza bint Nasser of Qatar BLACKPINK, K-pop Girl Group Richard Curtis, Screenwriter, Producer and Film Director Hindou Ibrahim, Activist for Climate Action and Indigenous Rights Graça Machel, Founder and Chair of the Board, Graça Machel Trust Dia Mirza, Actor, UN Environment Program Goodwill Ambassador Valentina Muñoz Rabanal, STEM Activist Edward Ndopu, Public Intellectual, Humanitarian and Founder of A BILLION REASONS Jeffrey Sachs, Director, Earth Institute at Colombia University Kailash Satyarthi, Nobel Peace Laureate, Founder of Kailash Satyarthi Children’s Foundation Brad Smith, President, Microsoft Corporation Forest Whitaker, Founder and CEO, Whitaker Peace & Development Initiative, UNESCO Special Envoy for Peace and Reconciliation