BRIDGETOWN, Barbados – The Prime Minister of Barbados, Mia Amor Mottley, has sent condolences to the Government and people of St. Kitts Nevis on the passing of former Premier Vance Winkworth Amory . Vance AmoryThe former Premier died early Saturday in London, England , following a battle with cancer. He was 72. In her statement, Mottley noted that she interacted with Amory at the 33rd Inter-sessional Meeting of the Conference of Heads of Government of CARICOM in Belize, “where he continued to demonstrate his interest in advancing the cause of Nevisians within the context of a stronger regional family.” “It was therefore a shock to me this morning to learn of his passing in a London hospital where he was battling cancer. His nation and this region will certainly miss him.” She added that Amory lived for his country, having represented it at the highest level as head of Government, but also as a cricketer of merit, who did duty with the bat for both the Leeward Islands and the Combined Islands (Windward and Leeward).Prime Minister of Barbados, Mia Amor Mottley “As we reflect on his life and contribution to his people, it is more than fair to conclude that he lived to serve others — as a teacher, then, at age 28, one of the youngest secondary school principals in his nation, a manager of the St. Kitts, Nevis & Anguilla National Bank, and afterward as a public servant who rose to the rank of permanent secretary in the Ministry of Finance.” “Without doubt, the people of Nevis recognize his dedication to his country and his leadership worth, because for two sessions over a near-two-decade span they chose him as their premier. It is noteworthy, that having surpassed the Biblical milestone of “threescore years and ten”, Mr. Amory, carrying the title “Ambassador”, was in Belize last month as part of his country’s delegation to the CARICOM talks. He served at his country’s pleasure until the very end.” Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda Gaston BrowneThe Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda Gaston Browne also sent his condolences to the government and people of the twin island federation. “Though the friendship between our two states has always been very close, the comity between Premier Vance Amory and me has been extraordinarily warm. In many ways, I regarded him as an embodiment of the best of St. Kitts and Nevis. He was an outstanding cricketer who played for his island and also for the Leeward Islands Team. Vance was a politician and statesman who bought a well -honed intellect to his assigned tasks . As a parliamentarian and government minister he excelled at the portfolio assigned to him.” According to Browne Amory made significant contributions to the growth and development of St. Kitts and Nevis. “He was very well cultured, a very respectful diplomat and minister. I have always held him in very high regard and with much admiration.” “St. Kitts and Nevis has lost a great son and the region has suffered an irreplaceable loss. May the ancestors welcome him into their arms, offering enteral rest and peace,” Browne said.