With the recent rebrand of Palm Beach Jerk Fest and Orlando becoming one, there's plenty of fun to cross over no matter which city you live in. If you're planning to attend the festival with your kids or parents, there's something for the whole family to look forward to. What better way to enjoy Memorial Day and kick off summer than at Florida Jerk Fest. Though Jerk chicken will be the main attraction, here are five things you must experience at this year's festival. 1. Food Of course, the 'nyammings' of Jerk everything will commence. If you prefer a variety of Jerk meat like Lobster or Chicken or cool down your tongue with a little spice of Jerk ice cream, there will be over a dozen food vendors to choose from to satisfy your appetite. Brace yourselves, though; the lines can be a little long. So don't just come with your belly, but also with some patience, as many restaurants are recouping from the pandemic. 2. Performances Whether you choose to get lawless with Baby Cham, sing hits with Fab 5, dance along with Ding-Dong, or fete with Destra, the Queen of Bacchanal, there are music options to suit your Caribbean music listening ear. So get your playlist ready early so when Memorial Day comes, you can fully immerse yourself in the live music experience, and you too will be able to sing and dance along with your favorite performers. 3. Kidzone For many, there is no work and, for the students, no school. So if you're coming to the festival with your kids, be sure to drop them off at the kid's zone. While you're enjoying the concert, your kids can enjoy themselves in their own hub. This is a must-stop for any child attending with lots of interactive games like bounce houses and Carnival mask making. While safety is always a concern, this area will be fully supervised so you can peacefully enjoy the show. 4. Vendors This marketplace will be full of artisan and craft stalls. This is another excellent way to support local small businesses and communities after the onset of the pandemic. There will be unique finds and pieces that you simply won't find in your local mall or shopping plaza. If you're looking for your country's flag to wave or a new clothing item to wear, avoid the shipping fees and directly walk away with exclusive threads and accessories. 5. Jerk Experience The Jerk experience is a unique way to enjoy the festival. You get an educational and delicious opportunity of all things Jerk in this area. This add-on to the festival experience will include a Jerk cook-off from different chefs, immersive food tastings, and a new mixology zone. The Florida Jerk Festival will be held Monday, May 30th, at John Prince Park (2700 6th Ave S, Lake Worth Beach, FL 3346) from 3 pm -11 pm.