US citizens without a passport wanting to vacation in the Caribbean often forget that Puerto Rico isn’t the only option available to them.  A trip to the US Virgin Island’s (USVI) is an exciting vacationing alternative for many Americans. On a clear day, you may even be able to see all the way to St. Croix!According to the USVI tourism website, the requirements for entry for US citizens include: That’s it, no passport or vaccination proof required. The USVI consists of three main islands and their nearby cays and minor islands: Saint Thomas, Saint John, and Saint Croix. On Saint Thomas you can find the vibrant capital of the USVI, Charlotte Amalie. Praised for its duty-free policies, many travelers flock here to able to purchase from many major brands without having to worry about import fees and taxes. The activities and attractions are many, including visiting Blackbeard’s Castle (a US National Historic Landmark) as well as the Saint Thomas Synagogue, the second oldest synagogue in the US. History buffs may also enjoy a tour at Fort Christiansvaern, one of five remaining Danish forts on the islands. You can also visit the Virgin Islands National Park, go horseback riding, snorkel, dive, go ziplining, kayaking…the list goes on. If you’re planning a visit, you may want to use the services available from RED Hospitality and Leisure. RED, or Resort, Experience and Destination Services, leads in providing resort services and watersports experiences. On the USVI, RED partners with The Ritz-Carlton St. Thomas to offer luxury cruises, snorkel trips, and sailing on the Lady Lynsey II catamaran. The Ritz-Carlton St. Thomas, having now re-opened, also offers gourmet appetizers and champagne on each outing. More relaxing activities are also available, including a romantic evening on the private island of Lovango Cay and sunset sailing in Pillsbury Sound. Here, guests can enjoy the 70ft. infinity pool and incredible views of St. John and St. Thomas. If you’re feeling tired of freezing winter temperatures and interested in no hassle getaway, consider making the US Virgin Islands your next travel destination.