BRIDGETOWN, Barbados – The Queen Elizabeth Hospital (QEH) said it is taking “very seriously” threats made against staff members after a video began circulating here in which staff of the Pediatric Department are being threatened with grievous bodily harm. Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Barbados (File Photo)“Due to our commitment to patient privacy and confidentiality we cannot speak to any allegations made, but we do wish to advise that threats against the safety and wellbeing of our staff are taken very seriously,” said the QEH, acting director Medical Services, Dr Clyde Cave “To this end hospital security forces have been placed on heightened alert and the Barbados Police Service has been engaged to investigate the matter at hand,” he said in a statement. Dr Cave said that in spite of the current coronavirus (COVID-19) environment and other challenges the public is being assured that the hospital remains committed to providing safe, quality, patient-centered healthcare to Barbadians and visitors alike. “However, despite our best efforts, there will be cases that are exceedingly difficult. Even in such circumstances, our medical and nursing teams continue to give of their best in these high-pressured situations, and we assure you that the best care available is always provided.” Media reports here said that the incident involves a young boy who is suspected to have died from a COVID-related illness. “We ask that you treat our staff with the courtesy and respect they deserve as additional threats of violence will only serve to create an untenable environment of fear,” Dr Care said, adding that the board, management and staff of the QEH extend their deepest sympathies to the family of the patient referenced in the video as they continue to grieve the loss of their loved one. “While we empathize with the family, under no circumstances will threats or acts of violence directed towards members of staff be condoned. Any and all such threats will be taken seriously and those guilty of such, prosecuted to the full extent of the law,” Dr. Cave added. Barbados has recorded 266 deaths from the COVID-19 since March 2020.