WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Governments of the United States and Canada on Saturday extended congratulatory messages to the people of Haiti on their Independence Day amid what they described as “immense challenges” that the French-speaking Caribbean country faces. Haiti celebrated the 218th anniversary of its independence on January 1st, 2022. (LAUREN ROBERTS/SALISBURY DAILY TIMES)“On behalf of the Government of the United States and the American people, I send warm greetings to the Haitian people as you celebrate the 218th anniversary of your independence,” said US Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken in a statement. “This year brought immense challenges to Haiti with the July 7 assassination of President Jovenel Moïse, the August 14 earthquake, and rising insecurity and kidnappings,” he added. “All of this occurred during a global pandemic that has brought additional economic hardship to Haiti and the region. “We recognize the struggles of the Haitian people and will support our partners in Haiti to rebuild and strengthen the institutions necessary to overcome these challenges in order to achieve prosperity and stability within the country,” Blinken continued. He said the United States remains “a steadfast partner as Haiti seeks to build a broad consensus and negotiate a path to a more secure, prosperous and stable republic.” Blinken urged “all voices “in Haiti to play “an active and productive role in ensuring progress toward democracy. “On this day of independence, the American people stand with the people of Haiti as they strive for a brighter future,” the US Secretary of State said. In Canada, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said he joined Haitian communities in Canada and around the world in celebrating Haiti’s Independence Day. “This day has always been significant for Haitians, people of African descent, and many other people around the world,” said Trudeau in statement, stating that, on January 1, 1804, Haiti made history by becoming the first Black-led independent country in the world and the first country in the Western Hemisphere to abolish slavery. “Since then, the first day of the year is celebrated by the people of Haiti and Haitian communities around the world as Haiti’s Independence Day,” added the Canadian prime minister, noting that Canada and Haiti officially established diplomatic relations in 1954. “Since then, our two countries have enjoyed a strong relationship, strengthened by our geographical proximity, shared language and close people-to-people ties,” continued Trudeau, stating that, today, more than 165,000 people of Haitian ancestry call Canada home, “and help make our country stronger, more prosperous and more inclusive. “This year, as we continue to follow public health guidelines to keep each other and our communities safe from COVID-19, I encourage all those celebrating to find alternative ways to mark this important day,” he urged. Trudeau said that Canada and Haiti work together as part of international organizations, including the United Nations, the Organization of American States (OAS), the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and La Francophonie. Additionally, he said that, for nearly 30 years, Canada has contributed to “every United Nations peace mission to Haiti to support stabilization and reconstruction efforts.” Trudeau said this includes financial assistance and the deployment of members of the Canadian Armed Forces and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, and correctional officers. “Canada will continue to support Haiti’s efforts to strengthen its governance, the rule of law and democracy,” he pledged. “We will also work with Haiti to improve the well-being of its citizens, particularly women and girls, notably through support to national health, education and protection systems, and the fight against COVID-19. “We will continue to encourage initiatives that foster economic growth that works for everyone and a greater resilience to climate change and natural disasters,” the Canadian prime minister added. “Every day, Haitians continue to demonstrate strength in the face of adversity, and Canada remains committed to working with them as they build toward a better tomorrow. “On behalf of the Government of Canada, I extend my best wishes to all those celebrating Haiti’s Independence Day,” he continued. Jean-Jacques Dessalines proclaimed the Haitian Declaration of Independence, on January 1, 1804, in the port city of Gonaïves, commemorating the end of the 13-year-long Haitian Revolution. The proclamation came two months after Dessalines defeated Napoleon Bonaparte’s French colonial forces, proclaiming the independence of Saint-Domingue and renaming it Haiti after its original Arawak name.