Charlestown, Nevis - Wrapping up a year of new developments, the Caribbean island of Nevis marked the grand opening of Malcolm Guishard Recreational Park on December 19, 2021, embodying the committed and enduring partnership between Nevis and Taiwan, the Republic of China. The result of a collaboration between these steadfast diplomatic allies for nearly four decades, this ambitious project transformed 11 acres leading to the sea into a vibrant recreational and cultural attraction for residents and visitors alike. The newly minted Malcolm Guishard Recreational Park features a glass-domed Visitors Center boasting a commanding view of the entire park. Guests to this fully air-conditioned complex can view a short orientation video about the Park in one of the Center’s four meeting spaces, take in a live concert performance on its large main stage, and enjoy food offerings and arcade areas. Outside of the Visitors Center is a semi-circular open-air amphitheater built into the landscape and designed to host large outdoor events, a fully equipped playground, basketball court, LED-lit ‘splash pad’ fountains where children can play in the water jets, jogging path, and winding ‘Snake Trail’ boardwalk leading to an area designated for picnics and smaller outdoor events. Directly on the Park’s perimeter are a number of waterfront bars/restaurants slated for future redevelopment. “The creation of Malcolm Guishard Recreational Park is the product of a truly collaborative process,” remarked Nevis Tourism Authority Chief Executive Officer, Jadine Yarde. “It incorporates cultural elements from both Taiwan and Nevis while emphasizing our shared value of sustainability. We expect the attraction to serve as a powerful model for the development of local and tourism attractions on the island well into the future.” Sustainable features found throughout Malcolm Guishard Recreational Park include its 3000+ plantings, along with the installation of solar panels, water-conserving fixtures, and LED lighting fixtures. Additionally, a system has been implemented to recycle surface run-off water within the overall design of the Park which is intended to preserve the natural beauty of the area.