PARADISE ISLAND, THE BAHAMAS – Something new, and something extraordinary, will soon arrive in The Bahamas. In 2024, David Grutman of Groot Hospitality and Pharrell Williams will partner with Atlantis Paradise Island to open a brand-new resort: Somewhere Else. The property (which is adjacent to Atlantis, and which will take over the current site of The Beach) is set to offer a unique and immersive experience, blending Grutman’s ability to create highly memorable hospitality platforms with Williams’s dynamic, genre-spanning artistry. The duo has already garnered collaborative success as partners on Swan, the Miami-based restaurant, and The Goodtime Hotel, a Miami Beach-based boutique concept; Somewhere Else marks their next milestone step. Photo courtesy of Groot Hospitality, design by Rockwell GroupSomewhere Else will feature over 400 guestrooms and suites alongside an array of vibrant, top-tier dining venues, lushly landscaped grounds, an oceanfront beach, multiple pools and recreation areas, luxury amenities and live entertainment. An atmosphere of tropical modernism will be seen and felt throughout the resort; Shawn Sullivan, of David Rockwell’s award-winning global architecture and design firm Rockwell Group, is the lead designer on the project. Together with Grutman and Williams, this group is creating an enthralling oasis in and of itself – yet Somewhere Else will also be within easy reach of Atlantis Paradise Island’s myriad dining and entertainment options. “Somewhere Else is going to be a one-of-a-kind resort,” said David Grutman, Founder, Groot Hospitality. “Not only will it offer a major extension of the unforgettable and high energy experiences we deliver with Groot Hospitality, but also, a clear focus on nature and restorative elements. We’ll have something for everyone, yet Pharrell and I are making sure Somewhere Else is unlike anywhere else.” "Teaming up with David Grutman and Pharrell to further evolve the resort is an endeavor we are incredibly proud to be embarking upon this year," said Audrey Oswell, President and Managing Director, Atlantis Paradise Island. "We can’t wait to share the Somewhere Else experience with new and returning guests, which will be amplified by the culture and warm Bahamian hospitality that can only be found at Atlantis Paradise Island." Atlantis Paradise Island is home to five properties, including the iconic towers of The Royal, the family-friendly accommodations at The Coral, residential-style studios and suites at The Reef, opulent suites at The Cove, and water-side villas at Harborside Resort. Atlantis Paradise Island offers immersive programming connecting guests to the history, art, marine life, people, cuisine, and festivities of The Bahamas, while underscoring critical marine life and environmental sustainability efforts. Please visit atlantisbahamas.com for more information about the resort, and destination-specific background, visit bahamas.com.