PARAMARIBO, Suriname – President Chandrikapersad Santokhi says he believes the factors affecting the development of the Dutch-speaking Caribbean Community (CARICOM) country are not economic in nature and called for greater collaboration among stakeholders. President Chandrikapersad Santokhi addressing the Association of Economists in Suriname (VES).“I do know that our standards and values or the absence of thinking and acting in unity and togetherness are partly to blame for this,” Santokhi said as he addressed the New Year’s reception of the Association of Economists in Suriname (VES) on Monday night. He told the ceremony that the problems could also be “likely an over-politicized administrative system that is now largely unproductive and burdensome, coupled with an eroded system of important state institutions. “This leads to unacceptable forms of inefficiency and corruption,” Santokhi said, noting also the absence of exemplary and strong leadership with vision and the willingness to listen to expert advice. “It’s time we talked about this very seriously and learned important lessons from it,” he told the economists. Speaking on the theme “From crisis to lasting prosperity for everyone,” Santokhi told the ceremony which also coincided with the VES 50th anniversary that a ‘Vision 2060’ committee will be established to which all social groups would be invited to participate. He said Suriname needs a new philosophy based on sustainable prosperity, equal opportunities and ‘out-of-the-box’ thinking and acting, while trusting in your own abilities. “Let’s jointly build a beautiful productive and sustainable future, then Suriname will certainly make structural progress,” said Santokhi, insisting that the administrative system in the country will have to change and that a careful and necessary adjustment of the political system is needed. “This will be necessary to guide our development and stimulate entrepreneurship,” Santokhi said, pointing out that the world is in a ‘transformation process (with) governments, the business community and social organizations are preparing for the transition.” He said in order to usher in and prepare for this transformation process, a team is needed that is capable of guiding and executing the process. He said the team should also be able to selflessly work with knowledge and strategic insight on the plan for the future. “Then Suriname will certainly make structural progress. We will also have to make difficult decisions, we have no other choice,” Santokhi added.