WASHINGTON, D.C. –The World Bank says wastewater testing provides a relatively economic method whereby countries in Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC) can improve their detection, diagnosis, control, and monitoring systems for viruses that cause diseases like the coronavirus (COVID-19) and its variants. Graphic via St. Lucia News Online.It said this tool, which complements clinical studies, allows public policy makers to have a comprehensive, sustainable, early warning, and equitable tool to improve public health responses. The Washington-based financial institution in a new report released Tuesday, noted that Latin America and the Caribbean region is one of the epicenters of the pandemic, with some of the highest mortality rates in the world and more than 1.56 million deaths. “With its unrelenting social and economic consequences, COVID-19 threatens to undo recent gains in human capital outcomes in the region. In this context, wastewater testing can, at a relatively low cost, provide information on the circulation of the virus and identify clusters of cases before the situation reaches the level of sustained transmission” The World Bank said that this early warning allows public health professionals to detect potential outbreaks and quickly implement targeted control measures. The new report highlights that wastewater testing can facilitate the collection of useful information about vulnerable populations or groups in remote locations, especially those that do not have access to clinical tests for COVID-19. It said the collection and testing of samples in certain at-risk settings provides reliable information and can therefore prevent outbreaks that could overwhelm the local health care system, especially with the emergence of new worrying variants, such as Omicron. “The COVID-19 pandemic has meant the loss of years of development gains for many countries in the region and has highlighted the need to develop new tools to better prepare for and respond to future crises,” said Carlos Felipe Jaramillo, World Bank vice president for the Latin America and Caribbean region. “The region can benefit from using its water and sanitation infrastructure for public health risk surveillance, such as COVID-19. The World Bank will help countries finance and implement this type of smart investments to help solve their complex problems,” Jaramillo added. The bank said leaders around the world, including those in Latin America and the Caribbean, still have many opportunities to implement wastewater surveillance to help combat COVID-19. It said most low-income countries have not yet begun to conduct tests, despite the general agreement that these countries are the ones that will benefit most from these types of tests, given their low-resource requirements in comparison to other surveillance approaches. “Beyond the current crisis created by the pandemic, wastewater testing can give a snapshot of the health of communities upon analysis of a variety of pathogens present in wastewater. Its use facilitates timely and more comprehensive public health responses to diseases like hepatitis A, influenza, and other community health risks such as antimicrobial resistance, chemical drug abuse, or overuse of pesticides. “ The report titled ‘’Strengthening public health surveillance through wastewater testing: an essential investment for the COVID-19 pandemic and future health threats’’ indicates that investments in wastewater monitoring systems can yield long-term benefits to strengthen countries’ capacity to provide timely and well-informed public health responses. It notes that best practices therefore need to be developed for measurement and the generation of reports, as well as to enable collaboration and coordination between health entities, laboratories, and services that are involved in wastewater collection. “This will require an infrastructure that allows for a broader, well-organized, and sustainable surveillance system,” the World Bank statement added.