BELMOPAN, Belize – The Belize government has approved the re-opening of the land borders from Monday next week for a 16 hour period daily for fully vaccinated people following the closure nearly two years ago as a result of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. A Cabinet statement said that all persons entering and leaving through the borders will have to adhere to the health regulations put in place to curb the spread of the virus that has killed 629 people and infected 53, 198 others since March 2020. “We are prepared; we are prepared at the Ministry of Health to have our team in place. We are hoping that we can have a very smooth reopening at the border, “said Health and Wellness Minister Kevin Bernard, adding that he doubts many Belizeans will flock to the Northern Border on Monday. “A lot of Belizeans are still worrying about what is happening across the border. And so, once everybody understands the protocols, I think there will be some smooth transitioning that will take place as we open.” He said that while he does not know all the protocols in Mexico, “I can tell you that depending on the state you live, they have their own regulations. “The state of Quintana Roo, Chetumal has its own. They require people to wear masks. They have their own things in place. We cannot speak to all the regulations that they have in their own country. I just know that they do have similar requirements like us. You have to wear a mask. You have to social distance in the stores. “They are only allowing a certain amount of people to go in at a time. So, we have been doing this for almost two and a half years now. I think you just need to remember, when …t we go over to Mexico and we hold our garbage in our pants and everything. But, when we come over to Belize we throw it out the bus, out the window. Once we have the regulations, let’s abide by the regulations.” Since the start of the year, Mexico and Guatemala have been recording a spike in COVID-19 cases and according to the Deputy Manager, Central Health Region, Dr. Melissa Diaz- Musa the authorities here are ensuring that when Belizeans leave on Monday, they will be given a small record for health that will have the date stamped and general information. “When you return you will hand that back to the public health inspector that will be doing screening at that point. If you are ill, obviously we would like you to say to us, I have a fever; I am not well, because the whole purpose is for us to detect very early and isolate early, and get treatment early if you are un-well,” she added.