PORT AU PRINCE, Haiti – Prime Minister Dr. Ariel Henry says no one will be allowed to meet in a hotel or abroad to decide in small committees who will be the next President or Prime Minister of Haiti. Haiti Prime Minister Ariel Henry in Port-au-Prince in November. (Joseph Odelyn/AP)In a nationwide radio and television broadcast on Monday night that coincided with the seven-month anniversary of the assassination of President Jovenel Moise at his private residence on July 7 last year, Henry said “the situation of the country is too serious to play musical chairs at the head of the State. “I will say that anyone who is tempted to use gangs, terrorists and gunslingers to gain power will be treated as terrorists and gunslingers, Henry said, adding “that’s why I ask those people who have guns between hands to put them down”. The address also highlighted the political uncertainty in the French-speaking Caribbean Community (CARICOM) country with opposition parties saying that Moise’s mandate as head of state had officially ended on Monday and renewed calls for the election of a new head of state. President of the Upper House, Senator Joseph Lambert, in a broadcast to the nation also on Monday, accused Prime Minister Henry of seeking to seize power in the country. “On the fringes of all legality, the reality of power is seized by the Prime Minister who has not managed to exercise it. It’s been seven months since Dr. Ariel Henry is unable to say what his mandate consists of,” Lambert said, adding that the country is unable to act on insecurity and therefore, unable to prepare and organize elections. He said faced with the accelerated deterioration of political life in Haiti, the de facto government no longer has much to say about the problems affecting the country as the socio-economic and political situation worsens. “Consultation and consensus are essential for the actors who, in a burst of lucidity, must understand that any sectarian initiative is doomed to failure which will lead to the collapse of the country. “The compromise, this time, must prevail over the repeated pettiness which has already given the results that the Haitian people are undergoing,” Lambert said, as he announced a meeting of stakeholders at the end of this week as a “consensus congress”. He told Haitians that the congress will bring together various stakeholders including representatives of the judiciary, those engaged in arriving at various agreements with a view to a consensual solution to the crisis and that Prime Minister Henry will be officially invited to attend. In his broadcast, Prime Minister Henry, flanked by several government ministers, said regarding the elections Prime Minister Henry said “we are moving forward with those who want to solve the problem of insecurity, set up a credible CEP, organize a popular consultation to validate the new Constitution. “We organize good elections so that we can quickly hand over the leadership of the country to the Haitian people who have the right to choose freely at all levels. We will make public the timetable that will lead us to the establishment of our democratic institutions. I invite all Haitians of good will to unite to make this project a success.” Henry said he was also pleased that despite security fears, Monday passed off peacefully, despite plans for large demonstrations and deserted streets as citizens preferred to stay at home. He said banks, schools, formal businesses were closed as a precaution and public transport was scarce. “Allow me to send a big hat to the Haitian people who are in a difficult situation, and this demonstrates their political maturity. There were people waiting for people to take to the streets, make a mess, burn tires, smash cars, destroy small vendors. But today, the people understand the political game.” Prime Minister Henry said that the Montana agreement, which calls for a Haitian solution to the crisis and signed on August 30, 2021, recognizes the positive side of Haitians in wanting to regroup in search of a solution to the crisis. He said that this is why he has met several times with various stakeholders and that he is continuing to extend his hand to them. “I will never (be) tired of meeting them,” Henry said, adding “no one has the authority or the right to meet in a hotel or abroad to decide in small committees who will be President or Prime Minister. All this is a distraction”. Prime Minister Henry said that the country’s resources are limited but that his administration is continuing to help Haitians in need. “We know there is a lot of misery. The country’s economy is lagging. Our economy is too small to allow 12 million people to live well, to get jobs, to get good service from the State. “I would also like to announce that after a great meeting on security in Canada, next February 16, we will hold a large round table, where all the “donors” will examine how they can help us,” he added. Canada hosted the security meeting last month, with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, announcing CDN$50.4 million (One Canadian dollar=US$0.78 cents) package for the Caribbean country.