PORT AU PRINCE. Haiti – Prime Minister Dr. Ariel Henry has led the tributes to renowned American doctor and philanthropist, Paul Farmer,  the co-founder of the non-government organization, “Partners in Health – Zanmi lasante,” who died in Rwanda on Monday night. He was 62 years old. Dr. Paul Farmer (seated) visits the pediatric ward at University Hospital in Mirebalais, Haiti, in December 2016. (Katherine Kralievits / Partners In Health)“I am deeply saddened by the news of the passing of Paul Farmer, a prominent American physician and anthropologist. This philanthropist was a great friend of Haiti whose works, notably through his NGO ‘Zanmi lasante’ continue to benefit our population,’ Henry said in a message. Former president, Michel Martelly described the death as “a major loss for Haiti and for the medical community. “Throughout his life, he gave everyone a lesson in courage and dignity. I extend my condolences to his family and to his collaborators who are grieving over this loss,” Martelly said, while Dr Lauré Adrien, the Director General of the Ministry of Health, described Farmer as a “son of Haiti. “His works in the field of health need no introduction. We hope that his contribution to humanity will serve as an inspiration to many. We extend our sincere condolences to his family, his collaborators close to ‘Zanmi Lasante’ and to all those who are affected by this premature departure of a man who knew how to understand … “The Haitian health system has lost one of its most ardent defenders, Adrien added. “Zanmi Lasanté” in Haiti has been described as is one of the most important care providers and has a presence in practically all over the French-speaking country. Farmer, who was chairman of the Department of Global Health and Social Medicine at Harvard Medical School, was also the co-founder and chief strategist of Partners In Health. He co-led United Nations efforts here following the January 2010 earthquake in Haiti. Former First Lady of Haiti, Sophia Martelly, said Haiti is “is indebted to him for countless lives saved” and former prime minister Jack Guy Lafontant, said he was “devastated’ at the death of a “ friend and close family member. “His leadership and his commitment alongside Haiti were undeniable. I salute his departure and may God keep him in peace.” President and chief executive officer of Partners In Health, Dr. Sheila Davis said, “the loss of Paul Farmer is devastating, but his vision for the world will live on through Partners in Health. “Paul taught everyone around him the power of companionship, love for one another and solidarity” Farmer is survived by his Haitian born wife, Didi and his three children.”