Oranjestad, Aruba – Divi & Tamarijn Aruba All Inclusives invites guests to step out of the cold and into miles of warm, white sanded beaches this season with their new winter sale. Guests can take advantage of a 25% discount on all-inclusive stays when booked by March 31, 2022 for travel now through March 31, 2022. The winter sale also follows the Aruba Government’s recent announcement regarding greater options for travel to the island that went into effect beginning February 3, 2022. These updates include the option to show proof of full vaccination, as well as the option to show a negative result from an antigen test taken within one day prior to arrival in Aruba. All of these new requirements can be viewed on the Aruba Tourism Authority’s (ATA) Traveler Health Requirements page. “We hope that this winter sale, combined with the added options for entering Aruba, will inspire travelers to choose our island as their tropical getaway this season,” shares Marin Bijl, general manager of Divi & Tamarijn Aruba All Inclusives. “Our role in providing exceptional hospitality and service begins during the planning phase for many of our guests and we remain committed to assisting them as they navigate this new travel landscape.” Divi & Tamarijn Aruba All Inclusives are dedicated to the health and safety of their guests, team members and partners and have continuously gone above and beyond to incorporate enhanced safety protocols, onsite testing options, rescheduling policies and much more. Recent policy highlights include the newly added Change with Confidence Policy where guests can reschedule their vacation through December 20, 2022 for any reason, free of charge. Their all-inclusive format paired with these updates, as well as the resorts’ convenient location, allows Divi & Tamarijn Aruba All Inclusives the opportunity to provide guests with a truly exceptional stay experience. Located on the sun-warmed Druif Beach, the resorts bookend more than a mile of shoreline and provide guests with an all-inclusive bubble where they can enjoy widespread amenities and family activities this winter season all with limited interruptions from public foot traffic. Featuring 10 all-inclusive dining options and unlimited beverages at eight bars, in addition to four freshwater pools and a variety of activities like snorkeling, catamaran sailing and electric biking, guests have seemingly unlimited options at their fingertips.