GEORGETOWN, Guyana – Guyana says it is working with Barbados to create a joint tourism product, linking the two Caribbean Community (CARICOM) countries as a common market and package. President Dr. Irfaan Ali addressing launch of Explore Guyana MagazinePresident Dr. Irfaan Ali addressing the launch of the Explore Guyana Magazine on Thursday night, said while that is being finalized, the two countries are already advancing the conversation to further sell the tourism products of both countries. “Let’s say you are coming to Barbados, and you are staying for a day, then let us see how we can get you to Kaieteur, let us see how we can get you to the Rupununi. That is the type of strategic conversation that is going on at the policy level and that all of you will be included when we get to the stage of finalizing the finer details of how this will work,” Ali told the ceremony. He said Guyana cannot be sold from Guyana and that the brand of Guyana has to be recognizable across the world. “We have every single requirement that every future brand of tourism that is targeted must have and with the type of investment that is coming in we are getting better facilities. Every single facility in this country, this year, they are recapitalizing. They are spending monies on upgrades, expansion, improvement, every single facility without an exception.” President Ali said funds have been set aside in the 2022 national budget for the imaging and branding of Guyana. “We have discussed with Barbados the setting up of a Guyana food terminal and our gold market working with Barbados together. When the cruise liners come in there is tremendous potential if we have a duty-free gold market. So, while we are working on that, we have to look at Miami National Airport, JFK (International Airport), we have to look at the UK to see how strategic it is in branding,” Ali said. He said that while it will carry a cost, it is what must be done if Guyana is to get ahead of the competition, insisting that the country does not have the luxury of time to work along the normal pathway to achieve the development government envisions. Ali said his government would continue to work aggressively to improve the tourism sector and create unique experiences that will attract people from all parts of the world. He reminded the stakeholders that they have “in this government and in this President, a true partner because I believe strongly in what we have. I believe very strongly in what we have to offer”. He said that the government will make the necessary investments to help improve Guyana’s competitiveness, to offer more incentives, to bolster expansion plans and to find ways in which there can be a meaningful reduction to the costs for movement to and from the hinterland and riverain communities. He said while the government is investing heavily in the country’s infrastructural development, there is also a need for a partnership approach to propel the sector forward, noting that these investments are geared towards the creation of unique experiences. He said the government is exploring the option of creating a “one-of-a-kind” safari/drive-through zoo experience “somewhere close to the bulk of the population”. “So we’re thinking of how we can create, in its natural environment, a one-of-a-kind zoo, a drive-through zoo that people from all across the Caribbean, South America can say this is a one-of-a-kind, unique experience we want to be part of and that is something that we are looking at, to see how it can be created.” In addition, Ali said that there is a very elaborate enhancement plan for the existing zoo and botanical gardens that will start soon, emphasizing that tourism and agriculture will be the country’s strongest and most sustainable sectors in the future. “We have to invest in these sectors not only physically but on the human resource capacity and ensure that we build the competitiveness of the sector.” President Ali said that Guyana should seek to take advantage of the Energy Conference and Expo 2022 set to take place from February 15-18. “So the energy conference is not only about oil and gas, for a matter of fact to me oil and gas is the sweetener… This is our time in the sector to put the country, our services and everything on the show for all those who are coming.” He said that to assist in this regard, government and private sector have decided upon an innovative idea of making the Umana Yana a duty-free zone. He said that the Government has invited local suppliers, producers, including makers of jewelry and rum and persons who create art and craft, to generate a shopping experience for all the foreign delegates and visitors coming to the conference.