Unethia Fox, a Special Education mathematics teacher at South Miami Senior High School, has been named the 2023 Francisco R. Walker Miami-Dade County Teacher of the Year at a ceremony held this evening at the DoubleTree by Hilton Miami Airport & Convention Center. Unethia Fox, 2023 Francisco R. Walker Teacher of the YearFox has been teaching at her alma mater, South Miami Senior High, for 19 years. Her inspiration for teaching is guiding her students academically and emotionally on their journey to adulthood. Their success is the driving force that keeps her engaged, evolving and growing to make lifetime connections with them and the community. She is currently a Black History coordinator/African American History Advocate and Educational Excellence School Advisory Council (EESAC) Committee member. Technology plays a pivotal role in her teaching approach. She uses her position as the school’s Digital Innovator to conduct trainings to instruct her colleagues on the best practices of integrating technology in their lesson plans. Fox is also the head coach of the girls’ basketball, volleyball, flag football and track teams.  She led the girls’ basketball team to a District Championship in 2014. In addition, she was named Florida’s 2009 National Federation High School Basketball Coach of the Year. Fox was instrumental in reviving the Watu Wazuri Club. A fond memory from her student days at South Miami High, the club provides a safe space for African-American and minority students to participate in community service projects. The runner-up is Derek Bostick of South Dade Technical College-Skills Center.Gabriela Goitía Vázquez, 2022 Rookie Teacher of the Year. The top rookie teachers were also recognized at the event. The 2022 Rookie Teacher of the Year is Gabriela Goitía Vázquez, a second-year educator at Alonzo and Tracy Mourning Senior High. She teaches 9th grade English I, AP English Language and Composition and 9th grade English I through ESOL. Her classroom is a haven where students feel secure, respected and valued as they explore and learn English. Ms. Vázquez’s mission is clear – to develop students as writers and critical thinkers. She thoughtfully curates a space that includes a class-selected playlist, student artwork and a social-emotional corner to refresh, reflect and journal. She is also active in her school community as an English tutor and is the Hispanic/Latinx Student Union Club sponsor. Mary Martinez from Pinecrest Elementary is the runner-up. The event’s signature sponsors include Office Depot, United Way of Miami-Dade, EdFed, and Kendall Toyota, which will present the winner with the keys to a new car. The event is made possible through partnerships with United Teachers of Dade, the Miami-Dade County Council of PTAs/PTSAs, the Dade Association of School Administrators, and supporting sponsor Univision 23.