NEW YORK, New York – Governor Kathy Hochul on Wednesday issued a proclamation declaring a special election to fill the vacancy in the 43rd Assembly District in Brooklyn, previously held by former Caribbean American Assembly Member Diana Richardson, will be held on March 22. The winner of the election will succeed Caribbean American Assembly Member Diana Richardson. (Photo courtesy of ENY News) Richardson, the daughter of St. Martin and Aruban immigrants, has been appointed Deputy Brooklyn Borough President. “With Assemblymember Richardson heading to Brooklyn Borough Hall, I am declaring a special election to fill this vacancy and ensure representation for the residents of the 43rd Assembly District,” Governor Hochul said. “Central Brooklyn has been exceptionally well-served by Assemblymember Richardson, and the entire borough will be better off for having her in Borough Hall,” she added. “The residents of the 43rd Assembly District will make their voices heard next month, and I look forward to building a productive working relationship with their next representative.” On Wednesday, the Brooklyn Democratic Party, headed by Haitian American New York State Assembly Member Rodneyse Bichotte Hermelyn also announced that on February 14, it will hold first 2022 candidate form, featuring five democratic candidates vying to fill the now-vacant 43rd Assembly District seat that covers the heavily-populated Caribbean communities of Crown Heights, parts of Flatbush, and Prospect Lefferts Gardens in Central Brooklyn. In January, newly-elected Brooklyn Borough President Antonio Reynoso announced that he was bringing on Assemblymember Richardson as Deputy Borough President. In her new role, Reynoso, a former New York City Council Member, said Richardson will be focused on addressing food insecurity, reducing gun violence, and supporting Brooklyn’s Community Boards and ensuring they are reflective of the communities they serve. Since 2015, Richardson served the 43rd Assembly District in Central Brooklyn.