Miami, Florida - Rapetón Approved, the artist development venture backed by reggaeton star Yandel and Angel ‘El Guru’ Vera, the founder of popular website and media brand Rapetón, has announced a strategic alliance with Warner Music, to offer support to new urban talent and to become a powerful promoter of artists from the genre. Rapetón Approved was launched in 2020 to sign new artists through Yandel’s label Y Entertainment Records and promote them through Rapetón’s platforms, including its website and YouTube channel. The project aimed to change the game in the Latin music industry, offering professional support to new talent and providing them with the right exposure to make their dreams come true. The selection of songs and artists for Rapetón Approved is in the hands of Yandel and Guru, who will be keeping an eye on the digital page where artists can submit their songs and demonstrate what they have to offer.  Rapetón Approved will provide professional support to these new artists, songwriters and producers, giving them the exposure and structure needed to make their musical dreams a reality. The first track produced under the deal will be released by Warner Music Latina on February 25th. It will be a representation of the beginnings of the urban genre in the back streets of Puerto Rico. It will kick-off a series of weekly releases in which new talent and different musical sounds will be showcased. Yandel says: "Y Entertainment's mission has always been developing new talent; singers, producers, and songwriters. I am grateful to God for allowing me to make a living from what I love the most: music, and to be able to contribute, together with Guru and Alejandro, to developing new talent fills me with joy." Alejandro Duque, President, Warner Music Latin America, adds: "Yandel and Guru have a very clear vision for the future of Rapetón Approved and I’m proud that Warner Music is now part of that vision. Together, our priority is to find and support the best emerging artists and aid their development. The combination of Yandel, Guru, and Warner Music provides an unparalleled platform for that purpose." Andrés Martínez, Guru's Manager and Yandel’s Co-Manager, comments: “I am very excited about this alliance, we have been planning this project since 2020 and, thank God, the time has come to start releasing music.”. Angel "Guru" Vera concludes: "I am super grateful to Warner Music Latin for supporting and betting on this vision of Rapetón Approved that I have been working on since 2016. It gives me great joy because now I can see that all sacrifices were worth it." said