ROSEAU, Dominica – Dominica Tuesday said it would be signing the comprehensive nuclear test treaty ban (CTBT). Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit (Left) in talks with CTBTO executive secretary Dr. Robert Floyd. (via Robert Floyd on Twitter)Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit held talks with the executive secretary of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban treaty Organization (CTBTO)) Preparatory Commission, Dr. Robert Floyd. Skerrit announced that that they had discussed the objectives of the CTBTO to prevent nuclear proliferation and promote disarmament to contribute to a safer and more secure world. The treaty is a multilateral accord that prohibits nuclear explosions in any environment for military and civilian purposes. “Honored to welcome this important step by Dominica to join the CTBT family,” Floyd said in a message posted on his Twitter account. “This marks a new era of partnership and I look forward to further strengthening the norm against nuclear testing together,” he added. The CTBT was established in 1996 and over 185 countries have already signed the treaty. Prior to his arrival in Dominica, Taylor visited Barbados and a government statement noted that the island will seek to strengthen its relations with the CTBTO. Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade, and Senior Minister coordinating for all Social and Environmental Policy,, Dr. Jerome Walcott, met with Floyd, who was on his first Caribbean and Latin America visit. The statement said that the meeting “discussed the benefits Barbados could access from being a member state of the organization, and the way forward in establishing a National Data Centre. “They also discussed the organization's celebration of 25 years since the signing of the treaty by 185 member states; the systems it uses to detect nuclear testing; tsunami warning systems; using the data collected to assist Barbados in its weather forecasting; climate change adaptation and mitigation modelling; capacity building and technical training”. Walcott said he was looking forward to a “lively and engaging collaboration” with the organization, and was pleased that Barbados was the first stop for the Executive Secretary on his tour, which included Dominica, Costa Rica, and Mexico. Barbados ratified the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty in January 2008.