CASTRIES, St. Lucia – The St. Lucia government has announced new measures aimed at curbing continued spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19) that up to Thursday had killed 267 people and infected 22, 426 others since March two years ago. Health, Wellness and Elderly Affairs Minister, Moses Jn Baptiste warned that the Omicron variant of the virus can cause illness and hospitalization especially if people are not vaccinated and that the new measures would take effect from Saturday until Friday March 4. He said that the curfew would come into effect from Mondays to Sundays from 12.00 am (local time) to 4.00 am daily and that business establishments should cease operation at 1.00 pm. A restaurant and other food establishments approved by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Tourism may provide a dine-in service to persons and can allow sale and disposal of intoxicating liquor at the restaurant and other food establishment, he said, adding that  an educational institution shall continue to operate as stated in the Education Act. “A person shall not host or attend a mass crowd event, social event or recreational activity. A person can host a small event that consists of no more than 25 people including persons of his or her immediate family at his or her residence or fully vaccinated persons at his or her residence. “A faith-based organization may hold a daily or regular religious ceremony and should comply with the square footage allowed in keeping with their COVID-19 response plan. A person shall not hold religious rites including baptisms, weddings and funerals by physical attendance, unless there are no more than 100 persons in attendance,” Jn Baptiste said, adding that loud music will not be tolerated. But he said a certified accommodation provider may provide recreational or social activities during the hours as specified under the COVID-19 order. “ A certified accommodation provider or an approved tourism establishment may permit a fully vaccinated person access to the services offered by the provider or establishment. All other protocols remain in effect. The Government of St. Lucia once again encourages everyone to follow the protocols stipulated. Let us all work together to fight this COVID-19 pandemic,” Jn Baptiste added.