Roseau, Dominica - Today, Travel + Leisure announced its World’s Best Awards list of winners for 2022 with Dominica (pronounced Dom-in-EEK-a) ranking as the top island in the Caribbean, Bermuda, and the Bahamas. This is the first time Dominica has been honored as a top island in the Travel + Leisure World’s Best Awards. Travel + Leisure recognizes the top hotels, islands, cities, cruise lines, airlines, spas, and more around the globe, based on the results of the Travel + Leisure World’s Best Awards 2022 readers’ survey. Readers rated islands on the following characteristics: natural attractions/beaches, activities/sights, restaurants/food, people/friendliness, value. Photo via the Discover Dominica Authority (DDA).“We are incredibly honored and elated to not only be a Travel + Leisure World’s Best Awards 2022 winner for the first time, but to be the top Island in the Caribbean, Bermuda, and the Bahamas,” said Hon. Denise Charles, Dominica’s Minister of Tourism, International Transport and Maritime Initiatives. “This recognition is a powerful testament to the experiences provided on the island. To be recognized by such a prestigious publication as the number one island to visit solidifies our stance in maintaining the island’s natural environment while still creating authentic experiences for travelers.” Additionally, Secret Bay, Dominica’s exclusive six-star, all villa rainforest resort experience and a member of Relais & Châteaux, the most prestigious association of luxury hotels and restaurants in the world, earned the #1 spot for resort hotels in the Caribbean, Bermuda and the Bahamas in this year’s Travel + Leisure World’s Best Awards. This is the second time in three years the eco-luxury resort has been named #1 resort in the Caribbean region. The resort is known for its remote locale, private accommodations with plunge pools, hyper-personalized service, island-to-table dining and no menu concept, chef-driven epicurean culinary experience, and wellness offerings. “To have not only our destination, but one of Dominica’s hotels also be number one in this year’s Travel + Leisure World’s Best Awards truly showcases that Dominica offers a desirable product for travelers seeking to connect with the luxury of nature,” continued Hon. Denise Charles. “We look forward to welcoming travelers who are seeking a new and exciting travel destination for their next adventure.” Dominica is a haven for adventure travelers seeking a unique vacation that includes hiking and adventure, waterfalls, hot springs and lakes, cultural events/festivals, diving and water sports, whale/dolphin watching and canyoning adventures. Known as the “Nature Island” for its lush vegetation and sustainable tourism offerings, Dominica has more than 300 miles of hiking trails, 365 rivers, more than 170 bird species, and is home to one of the last indigenous tribes in the world, the Kalinago. There are currently 9 active volcanos on the island, providing its lakes and rivers with extremely warm temperatures, especially Boiling Lake, which reaches temperatures above 200 degrees Fahrenheit. The island offers a variety of tailored accommodation preferences ranging from the eco-friendly traveler to luxury seekers. All hotel offerings remain aligned with the island’s promise to cater to its traveling guests while keeping its sustainability promise.