GEORGETOWN, Guyana – The Guyana government dismissing suggestions of ‘something unusual going on” with Indian companies, has signed a consultancy contract worth GUY$640 million (One Guyana dollar=US$0.004 cents) with an Indian based company for the construction of the Ogle to Haags Bosch, Eccles Road network. Minister of Public Works, Bishop Juan Edghill, Minister within the Ministry, Deodat Indar, and Dr. KJ Srinivasa, High Commissioner of India to Guyana at the signing ceremonyA government statement said that the Ministry of Public Works had signed the accord with Rail India Technical and Economic Service Limited (RITES) Ltd. The GUY$21.2 billion contract for the 7.8 kilometers, four -lane highway road was signed between the Guyana government and the Indian company – Ashoka Buildcon Limited, last week. Public Works Minister, Bishop Juan Edghill, who was among dignitaries witnessing the signing agreement on Wednesday, said the Indian supervisory firm will oversee the removal of utilities along the corridor and that all the necessary engagements were held and the ministry is awaiting the firm to ensure works are done in keeping with the project’s design. “I would hope that would be something that is swift…once we get those utilities removed the contractor can engage in actual physical works,” he said “I have had the privilege as well as engaging Ashoka Buildcon Limited since the signing last Friday, and they are actively engaged in the mobilization of equipment, and additional personnel to Guyana.” Edghill also spoke of the bilateral relations between Guyana and India, noting that the two countries have been collaborating within the confines of the laws of both states, dismissing suggestions of “s something ‘unusual’ ongoing. The project is being financed by the Indian Exim Bank and Edghill said as part of the agreement, the civil works for the project was confined to Indian companies, while the supervisory aspect was open to all. Minister within the Ministry of Public Works, Deodat Indar, said the contract has a duration of 34 months and that the government is pleased to collaborate with an international firm, which has worked on many large projects worldwide. He said the firm has indicated an interest in setting up a local office in Guyana, which he said, is backed by confidence in Guyana’s economy. The Indian High Commissioner to Guyana, Dr. K.J. Srinivasa also noted that a number of Indian companies have signaled interest in investing in Guyana, and working with the people and the government for future development.