MONTERREY, Mexico – Khadija Shaw scored the only goal of the night on Monday when Jamaica beat Mexico 1-0 in Group A action of the 2022 CONCACAF Women’s Championship (CWC), to take a major step toward qualifying for another Women’s World Cup. Khadija Shaw (left) and Chantelle Swaby of Jamaica celebrate after opening the score against Mexico in a Group A match of the Concacaf W Championship. (Photo: CONCACAF)Playing at the Estadio Universitario here, Jamaica got their goal early from Shaw in the eighth minute with a header via a free kick from Deneisha Blackwood. The forward’s scoring opened the Reggae Girlz goal count in the CWC and also left her tied with Jody Brown for most CWC goals by a Jamaican player – four. Mexico looked to respond and in the 15th minute, Diana Ordonez almost equalized the game with a header but was denied by the goalpost. Jamaica goalkeeper Rebecca Spencer came up with a big save in the 28th minute by denying Carolina Jaramillo a goal after she tried a long-distance shot, resulting in a corner kick that the Mexican side didn’t take advantage of. In the 35th minute, after a VAR review, the referee ruled in favour of a penalty for Jamaica after Mexico’s Casandra Montero committed a handball in the area. Havana Solaun was the one who took the ball, missing the chance of extending the Jamaica advantage by sending it over the crossbar. They were more chances starting in the second half, as Shaw tried to surprise the Mexican front again, but was denied the 2-0 lead by the goalpost. Ordonez, in the 54th, had the equalizer again, but barely missed a header that would have been an assist by Bianca Sierra. Mexico kept pushing as Joseline Montoya, subbed on in the 80’, put a ball in the area but the Jamaican defense were there, ready to cover it. With this result, Jamaica earned their first win over Mexico in a CWC match, making their overall record one win, no draws, three losses. The next opportunity for Mexico will be against Haiti, while Jamaica’s next challenge will be against the United States.