New York, New York - Red, Gold & Green three colors, which signifies so much to so many.  For Kabaka Pyramid and Damian “Jr Gong” Marley it was worthy enough to unite their musical synergy to highlight the significance of the colors to Rastafari tradition and Reggae music. Set to release Friday, July 22nd, Red, Gold & Green is brimming with the nuanced context often missing from the message. This missing context is remarkably packed into immaculate verses for which both artists are well known. Not only is Damian Marley featured, but he is also the producer of this single. Photo Credit: Arbitrage Media GroupThe name “Kabaka” is Ugandan for “King” and the long-lasting survival of the Pyramids of ancient Africa represent his desire for longevity in the music and deep connection to Kemetic roots; leaving messages for generations to come. Kabaka Pyramid is well known for songs like Warrior, Well Done and Can’t Breathe, which focused more keenly on the underprivileged who often are overlooked and ignored by society – and the powers that be, as well as Reggae Music and Nice Up the Dance that took on fun, entertaining lives of their own as strong representations of Jamaican culture. His debut album Kontraband, was met with critical acclaim, containing hits such as Kontraband featuring Damian Marley and Kaught Up with a popular music video that found home on BET, and Reggae Music. The result of collaboration between Damian Marley and Kabaka Pyramid, as evidenced by records like Kontraband, gives listeners the best of lyrics, musicality, and melodies. From the well harmonized chorus, the infectious reggae rhythm, and the insightful verses, this song is a continuation of the quality music Ghetto Youths International and Bebble Rock are famous for. “Red, Gold and Green is really getting at the root of the Ethiopian flag as a symbol of Rastafari globally and what it really means from our perspective, the ones who live it, and what it means to carry this message through the music” says Kabaka Pyramid. While Kabaka talks about the musical aspect and the significance of maintaining the tradition despite changing times, Damian Marley compliments it with an equally lyrically potent verse. Gong waxes poetic about the link between Ethiopia, Haile Selassie I and the Rastafari tradition with apparent ease. While this dynamic duo has linked up on other tracks and productions, this one is special in its focus on a mission and meaning. It delivers a poignant and important message about authenticity and reminds us of the identity of the tradition. While the order is tall, and the goal of the authors is lofty, this track delivers in its approach. It educates without confounding; it elaborates without meandering but most commendable is that it does not spare the often-missing connections between cultures. “When we wave the banner around the world, we bring the teachings and inspiration of Haile Selassie I to masses, some who see the depths of Rastafari and some who just see it as a style and strictly music. We want people to know that we take our tradition and heritage seriously and that these colors have a deeper meaning than just a colorful brand. All are welcomed to join the vibration but it’s also good to take some time to get to know the King and add meaning to these divine colors” says Kabaka Pyramid.