Turks and Caicos Islands – Travel + Leisure announced the results of its annual World’s Best Awards survey recognizing both The Shore Club and The Palms, owned by Hartling Resorts, as two of the best hotels in the world, placing The Shore Club as number 82 and The Palms as number 92, on this year’s Top 100 Hotels in the World list. The hotels were additionally recognized among the Top 25 Resort Hotels in the Caribbean, Bermuda and Bahamas, ranking as numbers 5 and 6, respectively. The properties were the only Turks and Caicos hotels to make the Top Hotels in the World list, and were the highest ranked Turks and Caicos properties in the Top 25 Resort Hotels in the Caribbean, Bermuda and Bahamas category. The Shore Club Turks and CaicosEach year, Travel + Leisure asks readers to weigh in on travel experiences around the globe — to share their opinions on the top hotels, resorts, cities, islands, cruise ships, spas, airlines, and more. Hotels are rated on their facilities, location, service, food, and overall value. “After spending 17 years in Turks and Caicos, I can confidently say it’s one of the most beautiful and luxurious places in the world, and I am very proud to see that our hotels have exuded that same feeling from the islands onto our guests. This award is a true testament to our team’s ongoing dedication and commitment to ensuring our patrons have an unforgettable experience while staying with us,” said Karen Whitt, Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Hartling Resorts. “It is such an honor to have our hotels recognized amongst the top hotels in the world and in our domain, with this recognition being even more humbling knowing that it is coming from those who know our hotels best — our guests.” The Palms Turks and Caicos The resorts, owned and operated by Hartling Resorts, represent elegant island living on the best beaches in Providenciales. The Palms Turks and Caicos is an exquisite 72-suite resort spanning 12 acres at the heart of Grace Bay Beach – consistently ranked among the most beautiful white sand beaches in the world. The property is outfitted with an infinity pool with beach views, various locally-inspired restaurants, and the world-renown 25,000 sq. ft. Spa at the Palms, with its own dreamy water features and only-found-here treatments. The open-air design of the property and slew of water activities allow for a natural connection to the destination and one-of-a-kind stay in Provo. And as the only development on Long Bay Beach, The Shore Club offers an exclusive Turks and Caicos experience, on the most sought-after stretch of Providenciales island. The property boasts large suites with sweeping ocean views, four expansive pool areas, the naturally-inspired Dune Spa and globally-inspired dining venues - all wrapped up in sea grape surrounded, very exclusive feeling grounds. The property additionally offers 6 six-bedroom luxury villas, outfitted with their own heated pool, private courtyard, expansive terraces, spacious guest rooms with large baths and a master suite with the most enchanting ocean views imaginable.