NASSAU, THE BAHAMAS – Baha Mar, the Caribbean’s leading integrated luxury resort of choice located in Nassau, The Bahamas, is thrilled to announce the first The Bahamas Culinary & Arts Festival at Baha Mar, taking place October 21-23, 2022. Establishing Baha Mar as the premier culinary and art destination in the Caribbean, the three-day food and culture festival will be headlined by internationally renowned and celebrated chefs including Marcus Samuelsson of Marcus at Baha Mar Fish + Chop House, Daniel Boulud of Café Boulud, and Dario Cecchini of Carna, who will be joined by TV personality and culinary maven Amanda Freitag along with author and restauranteur Carla Hall, as well as Bahamian culinary artisan, event curator and chef, Simeon Hall Jr. Aerial view of the Baha Mar. (Image courtesy of the Baha Mar)The 2022 Bahamas Culinary & Arts Festival will kick-off with a welcome party hosted by Marcus Samuelsson on Friday, October 21. Throughout the weekend, guests will be able to enjoy a two-day culinary and arts expo featuring interactive cooking demos led by Baha Mar’s leading epicurean talent and guest chefs, new exhibitions from local artisans in partnership with The Current curated by the resort’s Executive Director of Arts and Culture John Cox, and a grand dine-around showcasing a taste of the very best of The Bahamas and Baha Mar’s more than 45 celebrated restaurants, bars and cafes.  All headlining chefs will each host exclusive, bespoke interactive experiences, to be announced later this summer. The celebration will conclude with a special ticketed event for an unforgettable al fresco dining experience with the festival’s participating chefs and artists on Long Cay, Baha Mar's lush private island hideaway. “We are thrilled to debut The Bahamas Culinary & Arts Festival at Baha Mar, which will highlight the resort as the culinary, art and cultural destination of choice within the Caribbean,” said Graeme Davis, President, Baha Mar. “This premiere event will allow us to showcase the extraordinary culinarians, as well as artistic creativity found both at Baha Mar and throughout The Bahamas joined by international guest stars. We envision this festival becoming the leading celebration of food and art in the region, providing locals and visitors with the opportunity to fully immerse themselves in the island's rich culture and gastronomic offerings.” "I’m so honored to be part of this monumental event, taking place at one of my favorite destinations, Baha Mar,” said Marcus Samuelsson. “We’ve set the stage for a truly unforgettable festival, and myself, alongside my colleagues and friends, are excited to continue highlighting the local culinary scene, matched with unique Bahamian art and culture.” The Current Gallery and Art Center, Baha Mar’s hub for compelling Bahamian artistic experiences, is focused on recognizing and supporting a strong creative community in Nassau through captivating exhibitions, workshops, discussions, and more. During the festival weekend, the gallery and studio will take guests on a cultural journey showcasing the local art and its artists displayed throughout the property. Attendees will also experience local artists creating unique pieces of work - live - inspired by the event’s happenings and surroundings. “The Current's art programs are one-of-a-kind, with a focus on promoting work from all types of creatives throughout the resort,” said John Cox, Art Director of The Current Gallery and Art Center. “We are excited to be a part of The Bahamas Culinary & Arts Festival at Baha Mar, and to continue to share our passion for Bahamian art within the community and our visitors.” The full lineup of events will include: Friday, October 21: Sundown & Sips hosted by Marcus Samuelsson at 6 pm (exclusive access for Weekend Pass holders); Welcome Beach Party at 7 pm Saturday, October 22: The Bahamas Culinary & Arts Expo from 11 am – 6 pm; Baha Mar Art Tour hosted by John Cox at 11am; The Bahamas Culinary & Arts Grand Dine-Around from 7-11pm Sunday, October 23: Long Cay Luncheon at 11 am; The Bahamas Culinary & Arts Expo from 11 am – 6 pm