3t EnerMech has signed a four-year exclusivity agreement with the Engineering Construction Industry Training Board (ECITB) to become the sole provider of its licensed training in Angola and Guyana. The strategic alliance between 3t Energy Group and EnerMech, will deliver unique ECITB accredited skills programs through its learning solutions in each region. The agreement with the global arm of the UK-based skills organization is set until 2026, with an aim to expand its offering within Guyana and Angola through the collaboration with 3t EnerMech. Working with almost 200 licensed training providers in more than 25 countries, the ECITB delivers training and qualifications in skills for the engineering construction industry that are recognized worldwide. In February this year, 3t EnerMech announced its venture with Orinduik Development Incorporated Training Centre to develop Guyana’s first oil and gas training facility – following more than (USD) $20million of investment. Delivering training in-country to support the region’s growing oil and gas industry, the center will become the first and only ECITB internationally accredited training provider in Guyana. The 3t EnerMech alliance opened its first dedicated training facility in Angola’s industrial hub of Luanda last year. Since its launch, 3t EnerMech has secured several contracts delivering its in-country service training to Angolan nationals and will now exclusively offer ECITB courses such as its mechanical joint integrity and confined space range to support and upskill the region’s workforce. Paul Attrill, Vice President of Sales at 3t EnerMech commented on the agreement: “Building safer, smarter and sustainable workforces is key to increasing the future prosperity of industries around the globe. This agreement will play a significant role in this. By delivering the ECITB’s products in Angola and Guyana we can empower workers by giving them accredited training and tools for their role. “The ECITB’s standards and procedures are world-class, and we are proud to be the only organization to be able to deliver these in our training centers for the next four years and grow what we offer across the globe.” 3t EnerMech offers its globally recognized, quality assured training capability, along-side fully customizable learning solutions that draw on a range of software and technology tools including simulation, e-learning, VR-learning, R3 spaced-repetition learning and augmented reality.