GEORGETOWN, Guyana – Guyana's government says it is actively seeking investors to develop a "world-class" eco-resort to meet the demands of the country’s growing tourism industry. President Dr. Irfaan Ali (center) at the sod turning ceremony for the US$45 million hotel“So, we are out aggressively looking for a world class investor in eco resort. We have a few interests…we have a few interests,” President Irfaan Ali, said on Monday evening at the groundbreaking ceremony for a multi-million-dollar hotel at Lilliendaal, Greater Georgetown. The authorities here said the eco resort will be linked to the ‘sun, sand and sea’ concept, where persons will experience luxurious accommodations and other world-class amenities. Ali told the ceremony that’s “why we are building strong partnerships with Barbados. If you have a family of 10, seven might want to go to eco resort, but three might want to go at the beach. “We have to be able to have a product that delivers to us why to a wide section of the market, and that is what we are working on,” he said, adding that the world-class facility will add to the pool of resorts, and eco lodges across the country. President Ali said the intention is to launch Guyana as a ‘powerhouse,’ and promote the country as a premier destination for wellness tourism, which is dubbed one of the largest growing sectors in the world. He said the government is examining ways in which the country could tap into this industry through the creation of wellness centers, where persons can enhance their personal well-being by participating in spa treatment, meditation retreats, yoga, and weigh lost programs. “People go to Thailand on one week weight loss programs, you go on programs to go in a natural environment detoxification program there. This is what we call a wellness tourism, a new area that is emerging that we have the natural capability to build a great sector out of it,” he said. President Ali said another area of focus will be to promote Guyana as a health and education hub for the region. He said his administration is partnering with the US-based Mount Sinai Health System to improve the quality of and access to health care in the country and has commenced the construction of a new maternal and children’s hospital. “We are working with the best to make Guyana a health and education hub because more people coming in requires more services. When there’s greater demand for services, then facilities like this these get it direct support mechanism.” The government is also pushing the idea of a one-of-a- kind rainforest safari development that will offer fascinating nature adventures. Ali said 500 acres of land have been proposed along the Linden-Soesdyke Highway for this project. “You go to the US they have Disney World; you go to Singapore they have the night safari, you go to the Middle East, they have the day safari, what we want to create, and we already have some of the giants of the world here…is to have a one-of-a-kind rainforest safari. It will be the first in this region and that will create demand by itself,” he told the ceremony. He said the government is also examining its legal framework and institutional systems to make Guyana a corporate headquarter for the region. A number of multi-million-dollar companies have already indicated their interest in this regard. In preparation for these and other investment into the tourism sector. Guyana is partnering with the government of Barbados to train 6,000 persons for the industry.