GEORGETOWN, Guyana – Guyana says more than a dozen donor agencies and 250 exhibitors are to participate in the country’s premier Agriculture Investment Forum and Exposition that gets under way on Thursday. Agriculture Minister, Zulfikar Mustapha, updating reports on the Agriculture Investment Forum and Expo that gets underway on Thursday“We have a number of donor agencies, the first day will be a round table discussion and to look around the Caribbean to see what kind of project they can embark on. We have over 12 of those already indicating their interest in coming to participate firstly in the donor roundtable,” said Agriculture Minister, Zulfikar Mustapha. The event, to be held at the Arthur Chung Conference Centre, is being hosted by the Guyana government and the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) Secretariat under the theme, “Investing in Vision 25 by 2025.” Mustapha told reporters that the donor agencies will work directly with CARICOM countries to discuss their options and interests. “The response both locally and overseas has been overwhelming with all booth space booked. Over 250 exhibitors have already registered to exhibit their produce, both international, regional and local exhibitors,” he said, adding that the exhibition will showcase every aspect of agriculture including live animals, agricultural machinery and aquaculture. In addition, at least 82 local agro-processors will be showcasing “diverse quality agricultural product, supporting system and the vast potential to reduce the regional food import bill and the realization of the 25 by 2025 program”. Mustapha said that the forum and expo will allow countries to identify constraints and actions required to transform the region’s agriculture food system. “The three-day event will provide an opportunity for potential investors to contribute to food and nutrition security, with a view to identifying specific areas in which investment is needed to overcome existing structural and operational challenges.” The three-day event will allow stakeholders to engage in discussions from potential investors and stakeholders on new and emerging opportunities in CARICOM agriculture, as well as focusing on youths and gender in the sector. CARICOM Assistant Secretary-General, Joseph Cox, said the event is a good opportunity for effective partnership between governments and the private sector, and supported by the CARICOM Secretariat to reduce the six billion US dollar regional food import bill. t. “It is full time we capitalize on the opportunities that we have. We have to now move up the value chain,” he said, adding that the event represented a “first step along the continuum of progress.”,” he said.