Boston, MA - The Authentic Caribbean Foundation (ACF) has published its list of events to mark Caribbean Heritage Month, June 2022. The events will be held in Massachusetts and Rhode Island and will highlight elements of Caribbean culture and feature Caribbean-Americans of note across various sectors. Patron proudly displays St. Kitts and Nevis Flag at Caribbean Themed event in Massachusetts. (Photo credit: Andrew Sharpe)June 2022 will mark the 17th year since the proclamation of National Caribbean-American Heritage Month (NCAHM) in the United States. The kick-off, organized in partnership with the Institute of Caribbean Studies in Washington, DC, will be held on June 1st at 1:00 p.m., and streamed live at Authen Caribe, the organization's Facebook page. NCAHM will feature the music, food and lifestyle of Caribbean-Americans and will celebrate the personal and professional achievements of Caribbean-Americans in Massachusetts and across the USA. “I am always amazed at the strength, resilience and extraordinary achievements of Caribbean-Americans in the Diaspora,” said Andrew Sharpe, Founder/Chairman of ACF. “We have carved out a special place in the American society and are firmly part of its rich history.” Various ceremonies, some of which will include Flag Raisings, will be held in cities across Massachusetts: in Worcester, June 2nd; Boston, June 3rd; Springfield June 6th, and Brockton, June 13th. A series of cultural festivals are to be held: in Boston, June 4th; Randolph, June 17th, and Worcester, June 19th. Caribbean-American Park Day which will feature the lovely game of Cricket will be held on June 5th at Franklin Park, Playstead Cricket Ground, Boston. The Caribbean-American Women’s Empowerment Conference will be on June 12th. The month will close out with the “One Love, One Caribbean” Georges Island Cruise on June 26th, and a forum, “Caribbean Men Speak,” on June 29th. Caribbean Heritage Month will be celebrated in Rhode Island with a Summer Celebration, June 18th at the Aqua Blue Hotel, Narragansett and the Caribbean-American Heritage Festival in Providence on June 25th. The Massachusetts Diaspora is one of the largest Caribbean-American communities in the United States, consisting of over 200,000 people hailing from across the Caribbean.