NEW YORK, New York – Caribbean American community activist, Monique Chandler-Waterman, has won by a landslide the Special Election for the seat vacated by former New York State Assembly Member N. Nick Perry, who, earlier this month, was sworn-in as the new United States Ambassador to Jamaica. Monique Chandler-Waterman (File Photo)Perry, who had represented the 58th New York State Assembly District in Brooklyn for about three decades, along with Caribbean American Congresswoman Yvette D. Clarke, the daughter of Jamaican immigrants, had thrown their full support behind Chandler-Waterman, the daughter of Jamaican and Barbadian immigrants. According to preliminary results, released Tuesday night, by New York City’s Board of Elections, Chandler-Waterman convincingly beat two challengers in the very low voter-turnout poll of 72,865 registered voters. A total of 2,401 ballots were cast in Tuesday’s vote. With all 86 of the Election Districts reporting, Chandler-Waterman, who contested the elections on the Democratic Party and Working Families Party’s lines, received 1, 896 votes, or 78.97 percent. Her strongest opponent, Hercules E. Reid – another community activist and son of Jamaican immigrants, – was a very distant second, receiving only 431 votes, or 17.95 percent. Monique Allen-Davy, running on the Republican Party and Conservative Party’s line, received only 55 votes, or 2.29 percent. Results from early voting, which began two Saturdays ago, are yet to be tabulated. “There is no one better suited to continue Assemblyman Nick Perry’s dedicated service to this community than Monique Chandler-Waterman,” said Clarke. “The challenges that lie ahead require a community-focused approach to ensure we fully recover from the pandemic, keep our streets safe, and our children educated and connected to the resources they need to thrive and keep Brooklyn strong,” added Clarke, who represents the primarily Caribbean 9th Congressional District in Brooklyn. On Monday, Reid, a former community liaison for the Brooklyn Borough President’s Office, received the endorsement of New York State Senator Kevin Parker, who represents the 21st Senate District in Brooklyn. “Reid brings both community organizing and government experience, giving him the unique perspective we need right now to keep New York moving forward,” Parker said. Reid also had the backing of New York City Mayor Eric Adams, who had campaigned for him. Perry said he was “proud” to support Chandler-Waterman as his successor, adding that “the district will be in good hands. “She is a natural leader in every sense of the word, and her roots go deep in this community,” he told the Caribbean Media Corporation (CMC). “Monique is the best of us, and she will fight to make sure everyone has access to quality public schools, affordable housing and community-based health care,” he added.