NEW YORK, New York – Caribbean American community activist Monique Chandler-Waterman said on Wednesday she was “humbled” by her Special Election landslide victory in the three-way race in the 58th New York State Assembly District in Brooklyn. Monique Chandler-Waterman“The 58th Assembly District has a new Assembly Member!” exclaimed the daughter of Jamaican and Barbadian immigrants. “I am humbled by the fact that the community has placed its trust in me.” “As the new Assemblywoman representing the 58th District, I pledge to work with the community and do everything in my power to address the needs of our residents,” she told the Caribbean Media Corporation (CMC). “I spent my life in service to this community, and I will work even harder to ensure affordable housing, equitable education and healthcare, and that we stop the violence plaguing our streets.” She replaces former State Assembly Member N. Nick Perry, who was earlier this month sworn in as the new United States Ambassador to Jamaica. But Chandler-Waterman said while she was very successful in the Special Election, she still has to “run and win again” in the Democratic Primary Election on June 28th, urging voters to “continue to commit” to her vision for the district and help make sure she can serve a full term in the State Assembly. Perry, who had represented the 58th New York State Assembly District in Brooklyn for about three decades, along with Caribbean American Congresswoman Yvette D. Clarke, the daughter of Jamaican immigrants, had thrown their full support behind Chandler-Waterman. According to preliminary results, released Tuesday night, by New York City’s Board of Elections, Chandler-Waterman convincingly beat two challengers in the very low voter-turnout poll of 72,865 registered voters. A total of 2,401 ballots were cast in Tuesday’s vote. With all 86 of the Election Districts reporting, Chandler-Waterman, who contested the elections on the Democratic Party and Working Families Party’s lines, received 1, 896 votes, or 78.97 percent. Her strongest opponent, Hercules E. Reid – another community activist and son of Jamaican immigrants – was a distant second, receiving only 431 votes, or 17.95 percent. Monique Allen-Davy, running on the Republican Party and Conservative Party’s line, received only 55 votes, or 2.29 percent. The Board of Elections said there were two write-in ballots, and 17 ballots were voided. Results from early voting, which began two Saturdays ago, are yet to be tabulated. “There is no one better suited to continue Assemblyman Nick Perry’s dedicated service to this community than Monique Chandler-Waterman,” said Congresswoman Clarke on Tuesday, in endorsing Chandler-Waterman. “The challenges that lie ahead require a community-focused approach to ensure we fully recover from the pandemic, keep our streets safe, and our children educated and connected to the resources they need to thrive and keep Brooklyn strong,” added Clarke, who represents the primarily Caribbean 9th Congressional District in Brooklyn. Perry said he was “proud” to support Chandler-Waterman as his successor, adding that “the district will be in good hands. “She is a natural leader in every sense of the word, and her roots go deep in this community,” he told the Caribbean Media Corporation (CMC). “Monique is the best of us, and she will fight to make sure everyone has access to quality public schools, affordable housing and community-based health care.”