U.S. Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona today announced the 58th class of U.S. Presidential Scholars, recognizing 161 high school seniors for their accomplishments in academics, the arts, and career and technical education fields. The Florida scholars include (hometown, scholar, school, location): FL – Boca Raton – Alexander James Stone, West Boca Raton Community High School, Boca Raton, Florida. *FL – Miami – Caroline Luanna Berthin, Design & Architecture Senior High School, Miami, Florida (U.S. Presidential Scholar in Arts). *FL – Miami Beach – Zoe Goldemberg, Design & Architecture Senior High School, Miami, Florida (U.S. Presidential Scholar in Arts). FL – Sarasota – Edward Shen, Pine View School, Osprey, Florida. FL – Tallahassee – Dylan Epstein-Gross, James S. Rickards High School, Tallahassee, Florida. FL – Tallahassee – Sandhya Kumar, Lawton Chiles High School, Tallahassee, Florida. FL – Tarpon Springs – Melinda Liu, Palm Harbor University High School, Palm Harbor, Florida. FL – Wellington – Miles Kai Wang, Alexander W. Dreyfoos School of the Arts, West Palm Beach, Florida. *FL – Wellington – Kailey Rose Worontsoff, Alexander W. Dreyfoos School of the Arts, West Palm Beach, Florida (U.S. Presidential Scholar in Arts). “Our 2022 Presidential Scholars represent the best of America, and remind us that when empowered by education, there are no limits to what our young people can achieve," said U.S. Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona. "Today, I join President Biden to celebrate a class of scholars whose pursuit of knowledge, generosity of spirit, and exceptional talents bring our nation tremendous pride. Throughout one of the most trying periods in our nation’s history and amid our recovery from the pandemic, our students have once again demonstrated their strength and that they have so much to contribute to our country. Thanks to them, I know America's future is bright." The White House Commission on Presidential Scholars selects scholars annually based on their academic success, artistic and technical excellence, essays, school evaluations and transcripts, as well as a demonstrated commitment to community service and leadership. Of the 3.7 million students expected to graduate from high school this year, more than 5,000 candidates qualified for the 2022 awards determined by outstanding performance on the College Board SAT or ACT exams or through nominations made by chief state school officers,  other partner recognition organizations and YoungArts, the National Foundation for the Advancement of Artists. As directed by Presidential Executive Order, the 2022 U.S. Presidential Scholars are comprised of one young man and one young woman from each state, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, and U.S. families living abroad, as well as 15 chosen at-large, 20 scholars in the arts and 20 scholars in career and technical education. Created in 1964, the U.S. Presidential Scholars Program has honored over 7,900 of the nation’s top-performing students. The program was expanded in 1979 to recognize students who demonstrate exceptional talent in the visual, literary and performing arts. In 2015, the program was again extended to recognize students who demonstrate ability and accomplishment in career and technical education fields. The Presidential Scholars Class of 2022 will be recognized for their outstanding achievement this summer with an online recognition program.