PORT OF SPAIN, Trinidad – Experienced sports administrator Diane Henderson has become the first female president of the Trinidad and Tobago Olympic Committee (TTOC). Diane Henderson, the first female to be elected TTOC president.In the historic virtual election held at the TTOC’s 75th Annual General Meeting, Henderson won 70 percent of the vote – 24 votes to the 10 secured by her opponent Rowena Williams, who is one of three new vice-presidents. Henderson succeeds Brian Lewis as TTOC boss. “Thank you to the general council for entrusting me in leading the TTOC and taking on this new mantle. I am stoked and thrilled in demonstrating my leadership abilities to carry the organization into the new world of sport, innovation and commercialism,” said Henderson, who will also serve as President of the Trinidad and Tobago Commonwealth Games Association (TTCGA) and the Trinidad and Tobago Sand and Beach Games Association (TTSBGA). “It would be remiss of me not to mention my predecessor, Mr. Brian Lewis, for his unstinting dedication and commitment to the TTOC/TTCGA/TTSBGA. Nothing has gone unnoticed. Thanks also to everyone who supported me throughout my sporting and other careers leading to this occasion. I look forward to working with each and every one of you, especially the new Executive Board,” added the TTOC’s 11th president. The TTOC said Henderson has contributed significantly to sports governance, athlete welfare, strategic planning and sports mediation. As chair of Women in Sport Commission, she has been a key proponent for the continued push for education in sport in Trinidad and Tobago. Henderson has a history of working in sports management, being the first female on the executive board of the National Association of Athletics Administrations of Trinidad and Tobago (NAAA). She is also the current chairperson of the Trinidad and Tobago Marathon Committee where she has been responsible for the final decision-making on event coordination, developing race portals, social media upkeep, website coordination and private sector fundraising.