NEW YORK, NY - The secret is out. Many food enthusiasts now recognize a popular Caribbean “fruit” as a super food because of its nutrient values and versatility in meal planning and preparation. This “super food” or breadfruit is abundant in the Caribbean and according to Wikipedia, originated in the South Pacific and eventually made its way to the Caribbean in the 18th Century. It is grown in over 90 countries throughout South and Southeast Asia, the Pacific Ocean, the Caribbean and Central America and Africa.Breadfruit salad served chilled. Some of the nutrients found in breadfruit include carbohydrates, water, vitamin C, potassium, zinc, magnesium,  and iron , phosphorus, calcium, thiamin and sodium. breadfruit is also gluten free. Because of its versatility as a food item and the products that are made from it, breadfruit can be used to prepare very nutritious meals for the whole family. Some of the products that are made from this super food include breadfruit flour, breadfruit sword candies, breadfruit chips, breadfruit Jam. Most Caribbean nationals love breadfruit and will use it in soups by boiling it with other ground provisions; roasting it and eating it with Ackee and saltfish;  sautéing it with onions and tomatoes and serving it with salted mackerel, or salted bacalao, run dung (sautéed onions and tomatoes with salted mackerel cooked in reduced coconut milk.)  or frying it after roasting. Some Caribbean chefs have developed other dishes using bread fruit including breadfruit punch, breadfruit salad, breadfruit porridge, breadfruit soup, breadfruit breads, stuff breadfruit and breadfruit soufflé. Today I will share with you a recipe for breadfruit salad. Ingredients One small breadfruit cubed then boiled 1/2 cup grated Pepper Jack cheese 1/4 cup mayonnaise 1/2 cup heavy cream (slightly whisked) 1small grated onion One large garlic (crushed) One cup cooked green bean, corn, peas & carrots 1/8 cup melted butter Combine all ingredients add salt to taste. Serve chilled. ~newsamericasnow.com